four three two one dude first of all
what possessed you to want to swim
around the entire UK how many thousands
of miles is that yeah two thousand miles
altogether do you and miles of swimming
yeah yeah it seemed like a good idea at
the time and then halfway around I
realized how big Great Britain was but
you you've done some long swims before
but not like nothing even remotely like
what's the longest swim you did before
this yeah I did this is a bit of a
strange story I did I tried to swim
between st. Lucia and Martinique to
Caribbean islands it's only 40
kilometers from point to point and for
charity I was trying to swim from point
to point with it with a hundred pound
tree attached to my trunks so I was put
in the hundred pound tree six foot waves
crashing down and I actually didn't make
it from point to point I was like five
kilometres from the end and when I
didn't make it I decided to swim back
the other way
so I ended up swimming over a hundred
kilometres with a hundred pound tree
took me thirty two hours but still
didn't make it so so what went wrong
where you didn't make it
tides currents you know and I know you
just got swept away yeah yeah and
socially attached to a tree right cuz it
was this tree it's 100 pounds but it I
mean it floats but it was more of the
drag right so if there's any influence
from tides or currents and it's pulling
you in one direction I mean I was
basically gonna miss Martinique so I
don't know I was heading to Cuba you
know somewhere like that and then on the
way back down you know a they turned to
me again and they said like you're gonna
miss st. Lucia
you're gonna end up in I don't know
whatever's further south than st. Lucia
and I think I realized is as physically
fit as you are and the ocean just just
doesn't care you know it doesn't care
and so after that this was last year
this was November last year kind of felt
I had unfinished business with with the
ocean and came but came back to England
run up friends of mine at the ruins I
said guys look this is gonna sound
so strange I said but I just I need to
get out my system I just need to see how
far I can swim in 48 hours so I swam for
40 hours but it wasn't yet 160
kilometers something something like that
and I finished and I had basically
trench foot so where your your your feet
and your hands are so kind of I've got
so much watering that's always going
moldy yeah so I had 21 I'm sort of
sitting there nursing nursing my feet
and one of the one of the offices a good
friend of mine and they came over and
they just said they were real English
Romer and they said you boy and I said
yes and they said huh what are you
training for I said oh I'm training for
potentially attempting the world's
longest current neutral swim and then
just pause then he sits his cup of tea
and he looked me up and down he just
goes that just sounds a bit lame that's
like okay what what do you want me to do
any pauses and he says you just need to
man up you need to man up and swim
around Great Britain I was like whoa I
can't cause I couldn't say no one said
watch you swim with me bitch somebody
asking you to do you know so I said fine
once the ideas stuck with me I mean you
know that we've got this real history
and heritage of a British eccentric
explorers hmm and for me growing up
there's a story of Captain Webb so the
first guy to swim across the English
Channel and for those who don't know
English Channel you know the tides they
believed were too strong the water was
too cold they said you just can't make
it across the English now it's
impossible
the captain Webb refused to listen and
1875 August across the English Channel
and this is the part I love on a diet of
beef broth and brandy in a woollen
wetsuit he swam I think it's 23 hours
breaststroke with his head out of the
water because and I quote front crawl
was ungentlemanly like and there was
that element that I just thought that's
amazing
front crop what is the front cross so
basically that's front the regular one
yeah but way back in 1875 was like know
that he said I was ungentlemanly yes of
the movements at sur themselves yeah it
was still being developed as
whereas you know if you were a gentleman
and you were a swimmer you swim
breaststroke
you know Wow exactly head out of the
water the whole time the whole way 23
hours and again like the the support
boat was saying you know get out you
know you're not gonna make you not gonna
make it and he just refused and 23 hours
so you know that's part of a night swim
as well head out the water just all the
way
why brandy she's getting fucked up or
just a little bit of brandy you know I
don't know maybe might even a bit of
Dutch courage but I think there was you
know certainly back then sports
nutrition isn't what it is today
Brian so I think there was an element he
was even like lubing himself up being in
goose fat you know this is way back make
himself slicker slicker and I think
there was an element of warmth for that
was the certainly in the leaf right so
it is the Tour de France guys didn't
they drink wine that was like a big
thing back in the day way back yeah I
mean it wasn't too long ago I mean
general just was just talking now about
football back in England and it wasn't
till you know two longer maybe a hundred
years ago they used to just keep brandy
in the dressing room in case you needed
to warm yourself up real and out yeah
wow so they play soccer drunk Wow and I
think you know people don't understand
that it's taken you know people like
Captain web maybe me to a smaller extent
to just raise the bar push the
boundaries and and you know you've seen
that I think our generation have seen
that with the UFC with mixed martial
arts that has evolved so fast
I'm always remember Forrest Griffin used
to kind of a liking himself to the
basketball players just shooting
three-pointers with the ball between the
legs you know and that always resonated
with me because I was like yeah the the
evolution that we've seen and what sort
of Bruce Lee had the the foresight to
predict is amazing and I think you know
in a much much much smaller way again to
go back to sort of British athletes and
adventurers Roger Bannister in it first
night is wonderful four-minute mile
right and people said couldn't be done
and he was a medical student at the time
leading physician said he can't do it
your lungs will explode your legs will
fall off all sorts but no he says you
know Oxford laced up his trainers and
and ran a four-minute mile similar right
now
to what I think we're seeing with Kip
Choji you know and the two hour marathon
and so that's why in again in a much
much smaller way when I had that
conversation about swimming around Great
Britain everybody said you can't be done
yes it's 2,000 miles but there's giant
whirlpools in Scotland called the quarry
of eken Penland Firth renowned around
the world if you get that wrong you're
disappearing backwards at ten knots you
there's no way you're swimming against
that and and 10 knots that's a dolphin
speed yes it is ten knots in miles per
hour a base of 10 miles per hour
oh my god 10 miles per hour backwards as
you're trying to go forwards basically
yeah penning for the top of Scotland the
currents that go across there so it's
running in a good clip but yo yeah
records yeah I mean we got it good we we
managed to basically predict it so well
that III think that was probably my top
speed which I dare eight point seven
knots eight point seven miles per hour
I was basically cruising along the top
which is how which is like a dolphin you
know you were having the waves behind
you pushing you almost and see now
that's what's interesting because I had
the tides and currents with me not
necessarily the way yeah and when you
get but but actually you made a good
point in terms of when you get wind over
tide so if you've got ten knots going
this way but you even got a little bit
of wind and waves going this way it can
get choppy okay and and again sort of
looking at west Scotland wind over tide
you can get 40 knots coming straight
down the barrel but you're trying to
swim with the tide yeah so the wind is
coming at you but the tide is going the
opposite and as you can imagine that oh
my god yeah yeah so how do you predict
this this this tide that you have to get
right yeah I mean it's it's incompletely
in theory and this is what I realize
we're not when I sat down and we started
sort of plotting the great what is this
called again what is the the issue
that'll push you back oh just the tidal
yes what is it called
that area oh you say you gotta get right
oh it's at Penn and Firth pending for
the Penland handling for ya yeah and
that's that likes it renowned around
world but but equally if you imagine the
shape of Great Britain there's all sorts
of kind of compression where the water
will just come rush
through and as well as the pennilyn fur
you can get you know six knots around
Wales there's an island called scoler
and if you get that right you are
disappearing up you know and you're
winning you get it wrong again you're
just you're going backwards and four
more for me to do a continuous stage
swim if I'm going backwards I've got to
start where I was going backwards so for
me getting every single tide right and
that's why I saw what the team were
amazing those are the captain Matt was
just incredible that every night the
homework we okay here no did we crash
alright folks if you're listening or
watching we had a little technical
difficulty so this is not streaming live
will be uploaded later we were just
going over how you predicted you had to
and your team had to predict how the
tide was coming because if it went wrong
you'd get pushed backwards like 10 miles
an hour yeah basically and this is the
thing I think with the Great British
swim we were kind of taking swimming as
most people understand it and we were we
were removing it and putting in in an
arena that was so different so and I
think that's why it was it did so well
kind of online as well the community
around it because obviously swimmers
were interested but you know surfers
started to get involved because they
understood the waves sailors fishermen
you know all sorts of people started to
say you know sometimes in Great Britain
it's not safe to take a boat around the
top of Scotland you know for instance
never mind a swimmer so that's that's
why it was amazing that there on the
entire series it became a melting pot
and exchange of ideas because nobody
knew how to get a human body around the
coast of Great Britain it wasn't just
about swimming and that was what was
really cool how do they know like when
the tides are going one way or the other
how do they predict that yeah I mean
tides are so predictable so in theory
they change every six hours so in theory
when we sat down and we looked we know
that if you do six hours on six hours
off for 157 days you'll make it around
the coast of Great Britain you know and
that was the theory so you do this
biphasic sleep and you swim for 12 hours
a day but that's all theory there's
times when as I mentioned
whirlpools or or the tides might not
necessarily if you imagine sort of
that's Great Britain there
the tides don't necessarily go always
like this are they're not that
predictable sometimes if is kind of like
this like that's kind of Wales there the
tides will do this so you might you're
you're doing all these different things
that people are not gonna see what say
listening to it on audio so just try to
just describe it right is they're
basically rather than the tides just
going up and down and working with you
mhmmm sometimes it cross across yes
you're just kind of getting slapped
across the face one sides essentially
and it's not just helping you you're
gonna basically zigzag all the way up
the coast of Great Britain so as
predictable as tides are we found those
so much stuff that when we're out there
we were like whole it wasn't meant to do
that
or a giant whirlpool wasn't meant to be
there you know but it is and and that
was what was you know pretty yeah pretty
sketchy at some times you know that when
we were out there if a whirlpool just
decides to appear you've got there's not
really enough time to say hang on that
wasn't on the map can we look at that
can we speak to the Met Office and talk
about you know weather report no you
just you I've had to swim through it or
try and get out there as quick as you
could so when you encounter something
like that and you get stuck do you pull
out of the water and try back again
later at the same location you do but
quite often if it was there it's still
gonna be there oh it is what it is yeah
so sometimes there's there's no option
and perhaps the best example of this I
mentioned before bit it's called the
quarry a vacant so sort of west coast of
Scotland and it's a giant whirlpool and
and Matt the captain turned to me and
said look Ross you know I need you to
swim on I need to swim hard you know you
need to swim six hours you just need to
be clear of this whirlpool so as we were
swimming past it I set my watch and some
hard for six hours but about three hours
in I got stung by a jellyfish and I've
been stung by jellyfish a lot before
Eustace you know it's painful but it was
it was bearable but this one particular
jellyfish it just it was searing into my
skin it just it wouldn't stop throbbing
and so I carried on swimming three hours
past and it was just unbearable so I
popped my head up and I looked at Matt
the captain from the boat
I said Matt I'm so sorry I've been stung
you know I'm gonna have to stop I've
been stung by a jellyfish but the pain
just not going away and as I said that
to him he looked down I mean he said
yeah I know because the tentacles still
wrapped around your face so I've
basically been swimming for three hours
with a jellyfish on your face wearing a
jellyfish it wrapped into my goggles so
I took my gun peeled this fat tentacle
threw it away
and they're like that I'll show you in a
minute
there was a picture where my face sort
of changed shape and the goggles
wouldn't fit on my face anymore because
my eye sockets was so swelled and but I
knew that again for all of this
happening the quarry of ekend the giant
whirlpool was still to my left so Matt
was like you still need to swim you
still need to swim so I ended up putting
the goggles over my face and to try and
get them to seal I just punched them
into my face so you just had these
perfect ring and then I managed you're
so swollen yeah so you had to push them
through the swelling basically yeah so
you swim I made another hour we got
clear of the choreo vacance we managed
to clear this giant whirlpool i collapse
onto the boat and and this is the thing
it was at that point that I collapsed
exhausted face now a different shape to
when I started that particular swim and
and the team looked at me and they saw
how bad I was how how be an upper was
but they also knew that that the sea
just doesn't care and in six hours
the tide was going to change and I'm
gonna have to do that all over again
well and it was that kind of brutal
lesson from nature that from a sports
science background I'm interested in you
know rehab rest recovery nutrition
strategies all of this but with swimming
around Great Britain it very quickly
became apparent that the sea just
doesn't care it just doesn't care that
you need to rehab your shoulders it
doesn't care that the ligaments and
tendons in your shoulders are hurting
you might get impingement from swimming
too much you know none of this and
that's why it went from swimming as I
understood it and how a lot of people
understand it to something completely
like surviving basically in the water so
you're swimming schedule would be six
hours on and then you would try to rest
when would you eat during the swims or
between during the swims yeah yeah so
quite often just
you know throwing bananas at me and and
Wow salty bananas basically yeah yeah
just salty but I need to eat them while
you're in the water yeah yeah cuz it cuz
again going back to what we were talking
about with the pendulum first you could
get out and you could get on the boat
but sometimes in a really good tide if
you are just in the water you could be
making four knots you don't have to swim
but if you get in the freezing cold
water of Scotland and you are quite
happy getting hit in the face by
tentacles you can still make four knots
and so that's why so often it became
about something different than swimming
it was just it was just mental fortitude
it was physical fortitude it was
basically I always remember actually
first day of autumn I got up it was two
o'clock so it was a night swim two
o'clock in the morning and I left my
wetsuit out to dry and I had to scrape
just a thin layer of ice off the wetsuit
before I preferred it but if I didn't if
I didn't get in and I didn't spirit that
that way see then that would have been
you know 15 miles potentially that we
would have missed out on and then you
missed those 15 miles that the window of
opportunity to swim around Great Britain
because of the British summer being
notoriously unpredictable and quite
short we wouldn't have made it round
because even towards the end there was
two storms storm a lemon storm Callie
Allie and Callum who kind of stopped us
for those two days where we couldn't
swim because you just couldn't swim in a
storm it wasn't safe so when you were
swimming this was all during the summer
yeah yeah through the autumn and then we
finished November the fourth which was
going into the winter Oh as well and you
started what my June the first so for
since June you've been swimming yeah
basically that's so crazy yeah that's
interesting too you're not built like a
guide expect to be doing this right
you're built like a tank like that's not
normal like you're a big jack guy you
look more like an MMA fighter or a
powerlifter even right you don't look
like an endurance athlete
yeah which and we were just we were
speaking about it because I love the
episode with you in Ct Fletcher I loved
I love that and and you know as a big
fan of you know cab there you are look
at this fucking picture if someone said
that guy's gonna swim around that guy's
gonna swim for half an hour and he's
gonna have fun heart attack you're right
there was a lot yeah I'd probably be
inclined to agree with you but what I
find interesting is when you start
looking at the strength and stamina for
so often people believe the two couldn't
coexist right and Robert Hickson and his
is sort of research around concurrent
training they're basically saying if you
train for strength and stamina you
dilute the potency of the stimuli so
what I mean by that is if you know we
went into the gym just now and you know
me you and Jamie walked into the gym and
we were like okay okay let's let's go
and see what we're doing on in the squat
rack you know that's strength your
body's ability to generate force and we
trained that and then all of a sudden
okay now let's go over to the rowing
machine or let's go for a swim that's
got in swim 10k then all of a sudden our
bodies are gonna go well hang on
which one do you want us to adapt to you
know looking at you know molecular
biology which one do you want us to
adapt to strength or stamina and again
you dilute the potency that stimuli
however there's the theory that if you
separate them within the laws vert I'm
going off on a little bit of a tangent
here but please thank you good looking
at verkhoshansky so one of the greatest
strength and conditioning coaches to
every resist he talks about this idea of
adaptive energy saying that in any given
day you have a certain amount of
adaptive energy and if you are able to
fit both a training session that that
like I said causes your body to adapt to
both strength and stamina you separate
them under those conditions they can
coexist so you separate them by how much
time as much is needed for optimal
recovery so so yeah if we did and this
is that this is what I find fascinating
about MMA because you're essentially
saying to an MMA athlete I need you to
be strong fast quick I need you to be
muscular injured but I also need you to
have plyometric speed strength and their
bodies going you want us to be all of
those things right you know and that's
why quite often it's the athlete with a
higher work capacity who can you know
adapt to those looking at like you know
the Diaz brothers who just do triathlons
for fun you know they have this insane
work capacity
you know say so that's kind of your your
body's ability to perform and positively
tolerate training of a given intensity
or duration right so if you have the
Diaz brothers and you say okay we're
gonna now do weight training in the
morning but by the afternoon I also need
to go swim a 10k their bodies could
tolerate that whereas if you have
another athlete who perhaps you know
doesn't have that work capacity their
body's not going to positively tolerate
it right a person who's used to working
out maybe only an hour a day yeah
absolutely
so so that's essentially how I would
would approach anything like this but
what I found really interesting when
you're talking with with Ct Fletcher was
when you look at strength and stamina
it's it's so specific so you know said
principle specific adaptation to impose
demands you know you get good at
whatever you continually practice and
when you look at endurance in
weight-bearing sports absolutely you
know you can argue that that running for
instance is is just you know power to
weight ratio it's it's a series of
successive jumps and when you start
looking at that there's research that
will show adding and we did this with
the raw Marines back in England when you
just add one kilo of extra weight in a
backpack its effect on pulmonary
ventilation lactic threshold time to
fatigue all of those things just one one
kilogram that's it and so that's why
when you see Tour de France and people
like Chris Froome Bradley Wiggins you
know from Team Sky they are just looking
at the body saying okay your vo2 is what
it is your power to it your power to
weight ratio that's what we need to
improve we need to treat you like a
Formula One car and we need to take away
anything you know so when you look at
Chris Froome you know an unbelievable
athlete and they say well you don't need
biceps you don't need triceps so they
will remove those controlled muscular
atrophy and how do they approach that
intelligently I suppose looking at
anything from you know a calorie deficit
cell not to pick anything up ever kind
yeah there you go you know triceps they
don't run away exactly but I mean that
is that is the perfect example of you
know you know said principle specific
adaptation to impose demands that all he
does is he lives on a bike so as a
result his body is a byproduct of what
he continually practices just got a bike
muscles yeah
yeah and so so looking at that and sorry
going back to strengthen stand with it
when you look at running you could argue
that you know being jacked and being
heavier yes absolutely your power to
weight ratio is gonna impact you so for
instance I like to run but I don't stand
a chance against some of my friends who
are you know fell runners and they weigh
you know thirty kilos less than me how
much richer or exactly
yeah then lean longer just yeah you look
at an unbelievable specimen of a man you
go yes you were built for endurance mhm
but as soon as you go in the water
things might start to change a little
because now it's non-weight-bearing see
them how to weight ratios a little bit
different so then you could art and this
is all theory for the moment but looking
at the body shape to swim around Great
Britain because no one's ever done it
before so you can say okay what does
that body type look like and when
writing down a checklist you say we need
someone who can swim in you know 40
knots of wind wind over tide that we're
talking about so you're not going to
break on top of that as well you can
start to look at all of a sudden we need
someone who's never gonna take a day off
so I wasn't sick throughout those 157
days so there you start looking at
adaptive energy and and work capacity
that we just spoke about and then all of
a sudden you can start getting real into
the detail of looking at okay someone
with a higher muscle mass if they're
able to effectively swim and the
biomechanics are on point so that's not
you know this muscle mass isn't
interfering with their biomechanics
could it be argued that that stored
muscle glycogen can almost turn them
into a human whale you know they're yeah
you're right you put me into the pool
with Michael Phelps and he lapped me you
know he he - look at him swim it's
unbeliev he looks like a dolphin it's
it's beautiful but when it comes to
something like swimming around grouper
and it's just it's just an eating
competition you know with a little bit
of swimming involved and you just need
to make sure you don't break and that
goes back to the tides as well your body
working with ties if you can just keep
getting in the water for 157 days 12
hours a day and not break you'll make it
wearing great brand base so you think
the muscle Mouse aids you in that way I
would argue yes yeah I mean enough this
is purely anecdotal and I'd love to
actual
more research into this but but
certainly with a lot of athletes that I
train with there it's almost like a bell
curve so if you can imagine you know for
those listening like a bell curve like
that how do you describe that just I'm
just so like a horseshoe yeah yeah so
you can argue that here around endurance
so if you've got somebody who's you know
to use rich rods example an amazing
swimmer that over 10k he's gonna be
amazing because his efficiency
everything but then past this point so
when we start looking at the mileage
that we were covering so it sort of
English Channel swimmers 20 miles plus a
day at this point this leaner swimmers
gonna start running out of muscle
glycogen his biomechanics might break
down because he doesn't have the
strength to hold that position
continually all of those things the
waves start crashing in starting to swim
into 40 knots of wind what's gonna
happen are you gonna be would you favor
the the lean a quicker more streamlined
swimmer or would you argue that the guy
with more muscle mass here is gonna
continue to swim not necessarily at the
same pace but would continue not to
break I think it depends on who the man
with the muscle mass is because a lot of
guys with muscle mass they got that
muscle mass for doing very low reps high
weight I mean what what kind of exercise
do you do that gives you a bill like
that see and that's a good point I mean
I loved what you did with them was
dorian yates and i think when you start
looking at the the three mechanisms to
build muscular hypertrophy start looking
at metabolic stress so metabolic stress
being exactly what you just said lots
and lots of reps during it's been a
great example of that that is more
muscular hypertrophy the bodybuilding
centric work yeah that's metabolic
stress lots and lots of reps but then
you can also look at mechanical tension
so that's more your power lifters you
know really really high weight lower
volume just real strength your body's
ability to generate force that is what I
do
and yes it's shown to induce muscular
hypertrophy so to increase muscle mass
but arguably more functional you know
than when you'd be looking at a you know
bodybuilder mr. Olympia something like
that and then you have a muscle damage
which is more eccentric contraction some
more arguably sort of CrossFit so a
bodybuilder to achieve their physique
besides using steroids they have to you
lots of repetitions yeah is that the
idea
yeah that's it so so when you say what
do do I specifically use it's more
mechanical tension so more power lifting
cleans dead lifts is exactly yeah yeah
cuz you're not bit like a bodybuilder
but you you're built like someone was
very strong yeah yeah and I think that's
it where you start and that's not to say
you know when you look it you know to
use you as an example so if we had you
in the sports lab we would say okay what
is your strength deficit so your
strength deficit is is I'd say we had
you on you know the leg press and we
said Joe we want to we want to look at
how much force your legs can generate
with you just using basically your
training strength your training strength
is defined as the strength that you
would use just leg pressing not getting
you all like site of pre workouts
smelling salts none of that will just
say Joe go and leg press and you just
leg press and that's what you can
generate there but then in the sports
I'd back at local university we would
start using basically electric basic
using electrical impulses to to make the
muscles contract beyond what you could
generate yourself so that is what your
body could generate without you trying
to send those impulses bodies you the
actual the actual potential muscle the
the strength of the muscles themselves
how do you determine that like I said
basically electrocuting the muscles and
stimulating involuntarily and through
that do they measure it how so oh so
then that measures your your maximal
output with you not trying to use it
yourself it's involuntary so that is
something that you wouldn't have control
over so this what are they how do they
do that like essentially electrocuted
you but what kind of what is it like
electrodes a slap on your legs and they
force you to extend your legs yeah you
would have seen it yeah exactly that you
lift a weight with that yeah you can do
yeah so that's what they do
yeah yeah I've never heard of such a
thing yeah so you would be sitting in a
leg press and more the extensions and
then make your legs extend yeah yeah Wow
so they would monitor your strength so
the difference between that so all of a
sudden they'll say okay this over here
your training strength is what you could
do Joe when I was just saying okay
lift that right that's what you were
going okay I'll lift it and then over
here when it's involuntary that is what
you could actually do that's the
potential of the muscles what's usually
the higher number
oh absolutely well so it's always
involuntary really always yeah yeah
absolutely how much what and that's the
strength deficit mmm did you see what I
mean so okay so over here this is what
you could generate when you're just
going okay one two three and I'm lifting
it myself okay that done and over here
is what we do when it's involuntary now
if there's a big deficit okay so if
there's a huge deficit between the two
that means you're a pussy it means if
there's a large deficit between the two
it means that you have muscle mass but
you're not fully using it right so you
might see a large deficit between the
two if you had a bodybuilder for
instance because they've got a lot of
muscle mass but they're not using it
does that make sense why aren't they
using it because it's its strength is
functional so they've got all this
muscle mass but they're not recruiting
it they've not actually trained
strengths because strength is near a
muscular so when a bodybuilder does like
high repetitions and what was the type
of load that you were calling that how
they were that was causing hypertrophy
so that's metabolic stress metabolic
stress so just a sheer number of sets
yeah just constant
repetitions over and over and over again
with not that higher weight yes
yeah and that's meant but then
mechanical tension is when it's more
power lifting s right so there's your
difference between the two so the reason
being is meta but so when you start
looking at mechanical tension that might
produce an athlete who has a smaller
strength deficit right so when again
using you as an example if there was a
smaller strength deficit between what
you could voluntarily leg press in a leg
extension hair extension and then
involuntary there's a smaller deficit it
would like it either liken it to okay do
you have this much muscle mass but
you're using a lot of your potential
you're using it already it's almost like
you've got a Formula One car with a huge
engine but you're using it to its full
extent you know and and this is
why I'm going off on a slight tangent
here but this is why when you start
looking at bodybuilding centric work so
this idea of increasing muscular
hypertrophy it can be a good thing when
you understand that strength deficit so
you might have an athlete who you go
okay you have a small strength deficit
it's very small so for the muscle mass
that you have you're using it to its
absolute full potential it's like you
have a very small car but you are just
pushing down the accelerator so hard and
it can't go anymore which is a redline
exactly so the option that we have is to
increase the size of the car the option
we have is it increase the size your
muscle mass is a means-ends it does yeah
it does what kind of training were you
doing to increase your capacity for work
while maintaining the mass yeah and this
this guys it's a bit of a strange story
so this goes back to something I almost
call you know horsepower programming
which i think is it's so often lost now
I think training is very specific when
you go into the gym are you training for
strength speed stamina
whereas horseback programming I almost
borrowed from Soviet Union principle so
you start looking at general physical
preparedness as it was as it was known
and this is this just idea of you take
an athlete certainly younger athlete and
you're trying to increase their work
capacity by nonspecific movements so
you'll get at you're an athlete you're
handed a magic okay you're you're young
kid just growing up and then your
parents hand you to me I'm your coach
and I say okay I don't know if Joe's
gonna be big strong I don't know if he's
gonna be able to run far or fast I don't
know so what we're gonna do is just
create increase your song your muscular
efficiency and work capacity and so by
doing that it's kind of jumps throws
nonspecific these natural movement
patterns and we get you to do lots and
lots of this what that's doing is work
capacity your body's ability to
positively tolerate training and giving
some intensity or duration and I think
from the great british swim when a lot
of people will say how was it that you
were able to tolerate those 12 hours a
day the jellyfish things and everything
it for me one of the biggest things was
going back to you and this is gonna
sound so odd but I I ran a marathon
pulling a car
three three years ago I think now and so
that is almost the perfect embodiment of
horsepower programming in that that
sheer stress on the body but it's not a
specific skill when you see you were in
a marathon behind a car but pulling him
up pulling a car in front of a car yeah
not behind a car no yes it was then you
pulled the car and ran a marathon yeah
what the fuck dude yeah you seem so
normal
that's what's so confusing to me like if
I met you
there's something about a lot of these
endurance people well how I guess I'm
not Courtney Courtney door Walter she's
so carefree and silly but you're very
loose and relaxed I always consider like
those people like dark there's some
darkness to those extreme endurance
athletes yeah
there's darkness that there they're
running from some darkness you know I
mean no I do I've had this conversation
with a few people because they said
something similar and I think it's seven
I mean you know it's a slightly Goffman
on another tangent here cuz I think
we've covered the physical aspect and
work capacity which I've addressed but I
think and this is one thing I genuinely
just wanted to almost quiz you on and
get your thoughts on this is there
certainly the throughout the Great
British swim it subjected my body to a
fatigue like I've never experienced
before it was just yes sleep deprivation
just ligaments tendons in my shoulders
just wondering what's going on and for
me you almost develop a split
personality
in there there's times when I'd quite
often say you need to swim with a smile
because you know it's 157 days if you're
stressed or it's like a marathon where
you'd grit your teeth and you try and
get through it
I think we're very aware that you know
the body is this complex biochemical
organism and if you're stressed cortisol
levels spike inflammation your immune
system everything's affected so for me I
was treating it not like a marathon I
had to treat it swing with a smile you
know think this is this is life now
right at sea but then equally there were
times when you know I wouldn't swim with
a smile it was just you know choreo that
can being a great example you know I
certainly wasn't
they're happy then and and for me it's
those times when I say you've got to
just get feral you really just got it
and a good friend of mine you know back
in back in England SAS trained and he
said to me Ross you're you're a really
nice guy and everything but there's
gonna be times when you just need to you
know no smiles and just get feral which
which I thinking about it and because I
had 12 hours to think okay I was mulling
this over in my head for me it goes back
to Tim Noakes central governor theory
looking at how fatigue is an emotionally
driven state that we use to pull that
physiological handbrake so you know for
those listening sort of 60 miles into a
marathon you might be saying no way I
can't keep putting one foot in front the
other is no way and then all of a sudden
25 miles in and your family and friends
are clapping you and you get that second
wind and just sprinting and for me
looking at that this sort of central
governor theory I found that in complete
exhaustion like when when you absolutely
have nothing left you almost go into
this feral state you know so like a like
a like an injured dog and you know where
a lot of people will say oh you know
remember why you start to think of your
family and friends and I was like no no
no I was at a level of fatigue where I
wasn't thinking about you know family
and friends I was thinking almost you
know Maslow's hierarchy of needs where
it starts with just food shelter oxygen
I was at that sort of level where there
was see else's I mean my next kind of
heal now but you know there was times
when chafing on my neck my tongue was
falling apart fine now by the way Jay
hutong was far apart my tongue is on the
salt water yeah yeah and and falling
apart how saw it it's what it's called
salt tongue and after 12 hours in the
water every single day and your tongue
would essentially start to disintegrate
so Jesus yeah so I was I woke up and
there was parts of my tongue on my
pillow yeah no this is is there any
concern that this is permanent or it was
permanent at the time we are concerned
absolutely and there
that's that's but that's what goes back
to that that hierarchy of needs where
you're not thinking about family and
friends or what motivates you and what
you know you know you're thinking I want
to keep my tongue because no one is
really what people have gone on long
swims before but has anybody done six
months I don't think so there there's
been the competent moment who's going
across the Pacific but he is using a
snorkel so he kind of revelry whereas
for me I thought no this has to be done
without properly were you thinking about
the guy who was just doing the
breaststroke I'm saying well if he did
it this is it yeah it was Wow so yes
it's noted that and it was at that point
that I think you what you are feral you
know you're just thinking oh yeah one
one arm in front of the other keep going
keep moving exactly that you are so here
the pieces of your tongue this is a
video that you made our piece is your
tongue we're falling apart Wow
defective salt buildup on the tongue and
this is on Ross's
Instagram with it which is Ross EDG le
why I put it up on my Instagram too i
retweeted or reposted one of your things
to let people know about this oh that is
so nasty dude bad that you can see the
taste buds on it
that's how so was it's fucking with your
taste buds oh yeah yeah where you tasted
things oh yeah I'm and that started to
have an impact on you know the food as
well because I'm gonna like granola I
was eating so much granola but when that
happened it's like rubbing sandpaper on
an oh yeah right it's the grit the oats
exactly so and that was how we had to
just adapt on the basis so it's during
that that video is great actually I mean
that was in the cabin and I remember
just thinking like now I'm not thinking
you know family for Institute awk about
those as you just said those those
darker moments I think now it's very
easy for me to be very grateful I'm warm
sitting the studio view there's no
jellyfish but there's times there were
you know his dark on my neck as well I
mean my neck was bad but we didn't
actually catch that the moment was
probably the worst on that were
I went to bed with this open wound from
the wetsuit chafing basically and then
as I woke up the the bedsheet had fused
to my neck oh so I just had to put on
the puss oh Jesus Christ son and then
you get in that salt water which must've
felt great right yeah fuck man yeah what
was it like when you finished what did
it feel like when the last stroke wasn't
he got out of the water and you're like
holy shit I just swam for six months it
was yet it was it was so strange because
when we left in June we came back
obviously to the same point and we left
in the British summer and everyone was
on the beach and and then I came back
round people are putting up Christmas
decorations and I was like wow I'd been
gone for so long
let's see it was just so crazy how many
days is a total 157 oh my yeah that is
so insane it just is so much changing oh
here yeah here we go that was the finish
so this is swimming back this is you who
are these people these fucking hangers
on following you around pretending they
did it - it was such a team if I how
those people waiting for you my legs
were so shaky Joe Oh at this point I'm
thinking don't fall over don't fall over
Wow because it has I mean this is the
thing I think I stumble in a little
minute there's such madness man yeah
there is such madness and you crossed
the red bull finish line got a trident
that was pretty cool Wow
oh they hooked you up yeah what's that
made out of it was really sturdy I feel
the way that it captured everyone's
might it just only felt right today do
you swim yes you do yeah what Christina
pool know how I found out about you cuz
I was I was reading on the internet and
I found out about it I sent it to all my
friends after sober October to show what
pussies
I was like you guys think what we did
was hard you did shit I sent it to Tom
and Bert and our and we were all just
like fuck because whenever you hear
about someone doing something crazy
there's someone always someone who does
something far crazier to just one up the
crazy person and it keeps going and
going and going like there's a race that
Courtney do Walter who's been a guest on
the show before she won the Moab 240
which is a 238 mile race through the
Moab mountains and it's just an insane
race not only did she win it she wanted
by more than ten hours ahead of the
second place guy and she's just a
fucking straight savage so she recently
entered a race and she came in second
place in this race they would run for
four miles in an hour and then they
would stop when the hour was over they
would stop and then when the next hour
started they would run another four
miles like four point something miles
and they'd do it for six days that's
crazy
they did is like a Last Man Standing and
then at the very end
one person one like it's like who's
gonna drop out last so they just kept
doing it so the guy who created this
race see if you can find anything on
this guy because he's apparently very
sadistic and his idea was that people
run these 100-mile races or a 50 mile
race and if you just finish you feel
like a winner and he's like well
bullshit he goes there can't be a winner
if if somebody comes in first place and
then your second place you're not the
winner yeah like there's one winner
oh basically a marathon yes yeah he's
apparently James Fox - he's amazing so
this is the Berkeley marathons you know
about this did you see last Fame guy he
ran he created that race and this is a
he's amazing so did you see I think it
was last year I Jamie is it right it's
the Berkeley marathon which is a Betty
barking Berkeley Berkeley or Berkeley is
the Berkeley the one that nobody could
figure out how to Berkeley it's Berkeley
I thought that's the weird one yeah and
I think it was if you search this Amy's
well I think it was last year or the
year before I believe it's the 24 hours
or 48 hours but the guy missed out on
finishing it by
I think it was a minute so he ran oh
yeah and then at the end and you see him
on the floor he's absolutely devastated
and he didn't he take a wrong turn
somewhere along one yeah cuz it's really
difficult to follow that yeah path yeah
and but admirably he just got up and he
shook his hand and just said I just want
to thank you you know for that he said
sometimes you know the Berkeley walking
marathon wins but you know that that
takes something different right well
definitely take something different to
see fine if I'm correct in how they do
it i retweeted the Courtney Dahl Walter
won i retweeted it from Courtney where
it says it's like getting punched in the
face very softly over and over and over
again yeah that's exactly yeah I compare
it to being funny put it up does put the
article
yeah that's exactly it
so if you scroll down you'll see the the
specifications yeah yeah and yeah and
this is what I find amazing because then
it becomes about something completely
different I mean we were just talking
now about Kip Jogi in the two hour
marathon but it's like if you pick Jody
into this you know who's gonna win mhm
yes says they had an hour to complete
the four point one six six seven mile
loop and then they finished within
fifteen minutes to spare the bell clangs
again it's 7:40 a.m. they run it again
and then at 8:40 a.m. they run it again
at 9:40 they run it again so every hour
you run this four point one six six
seven mile loop and then the Bell just
keeps clanging forever what do you think
there's more people doing these events
now well I think it's the same thing as
everything else the same thing is if you
you buy a car today you want it to
accelerate from zero to sixty and two
and a half seconds yeah a few years ago
that was unheard of if you buy a
computer today you want it to be 3.8
gigahertz and five terabyte hard drive
and that's it's the same every year we
want improvements right and I think when
you hear someone's going to run a
100 mile race you go there yeah that's
cute but I'm gonna run 200 miles no like
that's not even possible the same as the
four-minute mile right someone runs the
200 miles like holy shit I can't believe
a guy ran for three days here in 200
miles and then someone like Courtney
comes along because I'm gonna do it in
two days yeah you know what and then she
runs she runs it in two days and then
someone they're talking about now doing
a 500 mile ultra marathon yeah but and
what I find amazing whoo what's the
athlete look like who completes that you
know to me he's Courtney's very thin
she's very light and very thin and you
know she's not the type of person that
would win a regular marathon this is
what was interesting my friend cam
Haines who also runs these he ran the
he's he's pretty jacked yeah yeah he
works he lifts a lot yeah yeah but he
cuts a lot of body weight when he does
those okay but the way he does it is
he's a hard man he's what I was talking
about like the speed without darkness
yeah he's got some darkness he just like
he'll burn 3,000 calories eat mm and so
he'll force his body to eat itself right
so he drops down to the 160 something
pound range and then that's what he
likes to way when he normally walks
around like 185 he's pretty built yeah
yeah but then he drops way down he'll
lose like 20 pounds of muscle because
he's always lean he's not losing body
fat
he's just forcing his body to literally
eat itself just through mental toughness
he's still quite big yeah even when he's
tending up on the start line and he's
looked like he's doing big for an
endurance athlete amazing but maybe
that's one of the reasons why he doesn't
win these things he comes in like third
fourth I mean and also you know he
hasn't been doing it as long as them and
he's 51 years old now but he's an animal
man and this is just that that kind of
mental fortitude that it takes to do one
of those things or to do what you did
it's a very unusual kind of Drive and
people are very excited by that drive
and they're very intrigued by it and
it's very attractive it's very
attractive to attempt to do it's very
attractive to pay attention to and watch
because everyone knows how difficult it
is it's undeniably difficult like if
someone says you talked to someone who
doesn't know how to run at all does they
don't do anything they just sit on the
couch yeah hey man get up get up we're
gonna run
miles like fuck at the end of that three
miles they will collapse the lay down
their back their heart would be pounding
the chest to be heaving so they know
that's hard everybody knows that's hard
everybody at one point in their life has
run until they're exhausted mmm whether
it's 500 yards or five miles or whatever
every from when you were a kid there's
always been a moment where we tested
ourselves so we're familiar with that
feeling of not being able to go on so
when they see a guy like you who went
through that feeling for six fucking my
it was at five months final five months
five months man five months is an insane
amount of time it is now upon June July
August September October November you're
into the sixth fucking month when you
stop that's insane but but what you just
said they're like do you think and this
is again because I had 12 hours to think
yeah every day do you think it is
unusual or do you think that we now
think it's unusual because Society has
got real comfortable you know and I
maintained the stuff that I was doing
with salt tongue and everything
ancestors do not think they would have
just thought you know that's that's just
Monday you know that's just I don't
think anybody ever thought that was just
Monday no I don't think they would have
force themselves to do that because
there's no biological or evolutionary
need to do that it's not like you could
swim for 12 hours a day and get across
the channel and get to a place where
there's better fruit you know that I
don't think our ancestors ever did that
I think they did what is that
type of hunting there's there's actually
a term for it Aaron's hunting well they
run an animal down I don't think it's
called endurance hunting I think it's
there's another term for it but they
will litter it like if you take an
antelope
they don't have sweat glands and so they
can run far faster than us but it comes
a point in time when they overheat so if
you just stay on them persistence
hunting that's all that was named it
right when you pulled it up to him
persistence hunting is and you see it in
these a lot of these African men who go
on to be phenomenal endurance runners I
mean they win
marathon's left and right in this
particular parts of Africa that produce
incredible runners and they think a lot
there was a really there's a cut in run
is a fantastic episode of Radiolab that
details these men from this one certain
part in Africa I forget where it is but
see if you pull that up but this this
episode detailed the horrific
circumcision rituals that these men had
to endure where they cut their dick and
they like stick a stick through it and
then they make them crawl through thorns
naked right oh yeah so I saw that
there's a guy back I think it's Bruce
Paris he's an adventurer he has done
everything you can think of every tribal
initiation and that's the one that he
refused good for him keep you did
contact those crazy guys the San are the
oldest inhabitants of southern Africa
where they have lived for almost twenty
thousand years the term sand is commonly
used to refer to a diverse group diverse
group of hunter-gatherers living in
South Africa share historical linguistic
connections many now accept the term
Bushmen or sand is that that's Bushmen
hunting is that from the radio lab thing
yes that's what they call themselves you
see article yeah is that the same but is
that the same with the the horrible
circumcision ritual yeah the whole it's
fucking horrible but they were arguing
in the the when they were discussing it
and one of the guys who was on it who
had actually been through it and now I
believe he lives Elissa maybe he lives
in America but he was saying he would
never have his children go through that
but he but it made him who he is yeah
and that the idea was that not only are
these guys physically gifted but they
also have unbelievable unbelievable pain
tolerance and mental endurance and just
mental toughness mmm and this is one of
the reasons why they become so
successful is that the ability to push a
pace for two-plus miles or whatever is
their marathon time is not just
dependent upon their physical ability
but also dependent upon their ability to
endure pain
and to force themselves past the you
know anyone can kind of trot along it is
really leisurely paced it's not painful
if you're going hard no you're really
going hard this is the radio lapses at
Enya yeah it's the yeah capo key I think
is ah there we go
so before you mean well I've kind of
described it but they describe it even
more horrific detail in the podcasts and
that almost crosses over to I mean again
I'm not advocating what you just write
you know genitalia mutilation I'm not
advocating that but there's that idea of
adversity training bit like if you're
ever in the gym it's like what your
training it's just like strength for
your training speed and this is why I'm
a huge fan of wim HOF because so often
what he's doing when he's submerged in
ice cold it's like wow I'm training my
capillaries yes I would you mean your
training your capillaries and it's these
where atrophying these age-old inbuilt
mechanisms so again I'm not advocating
you know what yeah but do you have a
keen tolerance yeah and do you think
that I that's maybe missing I mean again
looking at MMA like maybe that you you
see you know whether it's you know
mootai and they're like kicking trees
and stuff yeah granted that's you know
making denser bones or do you think
there's that element as well yeah when
you look at what was it was now but you
just start looking at just putting
people in high-stress situations just to
see how they're gonna cope like John
Fitch he was like notorious for letting
people almost try and submit him and
then they tie themselves out he was just
completely calm and then what's what I
mean that's that really depends on who's
choking you cuz Josh Burkman choked him
completely unconscious okay okay yeah
yeah you know Berkman's got a hell of a
guillotine and John Fitch shot in on
them and Berkman caught him in the
guillotine you just blow asleep in the
first round
well I think if there's there's guys
they can just put you to sleep right I
can if you think that you can get away
with that shit with like a marcelo
garcia you're gonna wake up going what
happened rio k yeah okay but most guys
won't be able to choke you sits at that
point you know and again i'm catching up
on 157 day
if UFC you know why I was actually out
at sea with the McGregor and khabib but
on that no do you think he tapped
premature do you think though you had to
sleep
McGregor went to sleep oh that in that
fight oh you met John fish's Josh Berg
yeah neck crank right no he did not tap
premature um he did not defend it though
okay here's the deal he was done he was
beaten down could be fucked him up could
be smashed him but there was a lot of
people that don't train and this was
very frustrating to me there's many
people that don't train that think that
that was something that you shouldn't
tap to they're they're out of their
fucking mind
okay that is what's called a fulcrum
show that's okay okay it's it's not
necessarily a choke but it is it chokes
you but it really feels like your
fucking heads gonna pop off right what
he's doing is he's wrapping around the
face and you don't have to even go under
the jaw you can get it on the chin
especially if you're as strong as khabib
then you clamp your hands together and
you're pressing your forearm against his
back so you've got this and you get the
forum against his back and you're doing
this just leave this fucking head it's
just like hits and khabib is so strong
his gray he's been grappling since he
was a baby right all of his muscles are
designed to squeeze and crush and smash
and he gets a hold of your neck in that
position and he's got that forearm
pressed against your back see if he can
find an image of the actual submission
you could really clearly see what he's
doing and then there was a video where
Dean Lister and my friend Hans Mullen
camp described it that's pulling that up
and it's been taken off that video yeah
the Hans mollenkamp Dean Lister video
Wow maybe someone reposted it and that
link is gone yeah huh
did you check gene Lister's that's so
weird
wonder why anybody would take that down
um anyway mizuka fuck your face up
without even going under the neck a good
example here's another good example just
pull this up you got it okay one from
right after the fight but he's still
describing it okay oh this is perfect
this is perfect so Dean mister who's a a
world champion Brazilian jiu-jitsu black
belt as
legit as it gets and this is my friend
Hans Mullen camp he's also Brazilian
jiu-jitsu blackbelt and see see this is
exactly what khabib did see how his
forearm is pressed against the back and
the arm is under the chin see the
difference is what Dean is doing he
can't even help himself he's immediately
putting his arms his hands on the arm
that's choking him that's what you're
supposed to do now if you look at what
Connor did Connor just waited until he
couldn't take it anymore and tapped
right right when you see Connor both of
his arms are down he's getting his neck
cranked and he doesn't do this right
that's what you're supposed to do you
supposed to do two on one and then you
drop that like look at this see what
he's doing he's tapping
let's see where his left arm is okay
yeah the left arm should not there's you
you can't you can't do that see that is
a perfect example of the fulcrum choke
see how he's doing that pressing his
forearm against the back squeezing the
head it's it's a neck crank it's a choke
there's a lot of shit going on there it
doesn't have to be under the chin it
could just be on your face and you're
gonna get fucked up
so all those folks out there that were
saying that it wasn't a choke need to go
have someone apply that to them and they
need to start training jiu-jitsu and
stop fucking talking about MMA
submissions because they don't write
that you're gonna tap bitch don't say
you're not gonna tap you get a fucking
tap right not everybody's gonna tap from
that because other people unlike Connor
are gonna be better at defending that
they're gonna great like you get a hold
of world-class brazilian jiu-jitsu
blackbelt who's also an MMA fighter like
like Vinny Magalhaes he's gonna grab a
hold of that he's gonna defend properly
he's gonna just he's gonna try to get
out of that yeah he might have to tap if
someone gets him in it I mean he people
tap but he's he's not gonna just have
one arm posted mmm that's just not the
right way to handle but I think that's
because Connor had eaten bombs when I
was about twice so that's all technical
do you yeah so there's that almost as a
I don't know like a continuum than
technical yes you've just you know and
again I should point out you know again
I'm a complete layman when it comes to
mixed martial arts but I find it
fascinating the this adversity training
aspect so you're just saying he was
eating bombs before that
would that would have helped you know
that if he wasn't he didn't mean that
where does it cross over from being tea
would help if he wasn't as tired so like
if that choke was applied during the
first few seconds or minutes of my first
round I think he probably would have had
a good chance to survive okay okay
what's gonna put on Dean Lester he's Eco
choke and he's not it's not being done
well but this is a dif this is not an
easy kill Joe this is this is uh what
this is is I mean it's kind of an easy
kiyul but see where his hand is you got
to really get underneath see his left
hand that left hands got to go not just
there it's got to go under the chin
that's not good enough for a guy like
Dean you got okay now it's pretty
fucking tight now it's tight and he's
got to get further and further and the
further that left arm gets into jeans
neck mmm the more more there's gonna be
a possibility of him choking but Dean
has been fucking choked his whole life
which is but I do have to say that Josh
Barnett made him tap and Josh Barnett is
like one of the few guys that's made
Dean Lister tap and I think the first
time he tapped in a decade and Josh
Barnett got him in a scarf hold and I
thought that was in metamoris and Josh
Barnett who is he's a catch wrestling
specialist yeah go to the very end of it
here Josh Barnett gets ahold of Dean's
he gets it you see in this position
right here he's inside control which is
just impressive enough that Josh is able
to do this with a guy like Dean Lister
but then he gets him and what's uh he
probably has a different name for it but
it's uh we used to call it judo side
control it's quite a bit further down on
this you got to keep going keep going
keep going to keep going all the way to
the end so he gets a hold of his he's
got a head and arm choke here it is here
it is so he's got his head and his arm
trapped together and Josh who's an
enormous leap our 'fl is really neck
cranking him as much as anything and
then Dean was forced to tap but this is
at the end of a long match
and you know it could have been
exhaustion might have played a part in
it it most certainly was Josh's skill
and his ability to apply that technique
but the point is is a guy like Dean
Lister you're not gonna tap that guy
easy but this is an again again it with
sort of holding my hands up saying I'm
so sort of naive a huge fan of anime but
not necessarily any of the technical
aspects but what I love is when you look
at someone like you know Nick Diaz or
Michael Bisping mm-hmm you know people
don't understand his conditioning and he
will just wear people down massive
mental toughness - with what Bisping has
is just insane mental toughness
you know Bisping basically has one eye
well if you look at his eyes his one of
his eye actually and I hope he can get
surgery on it now because he is retired
he has oil like embedded in his eye to
protect his retina because it's been
torn so many times been torn he had
surgery I had a repair torn again his
right eye is fucked up man and one of
the reasons why he retired is he started
to see some irregularities in his vision
in his left eye so his good eye was
fucking up too but I mean Michael
Bisping is a fucking animal I mean he is
he's about as tough as it gets and he's
not like a spectacularly physically
talented guy like a John Jones or Yoel
Romero is just this unbelievable
specimen Michael's you know a really
good athlete unquestionably but it's
just tough
just fucking tough so to answer your
question there's there's us and you
could speak to this because what you're
talking about the ability to overcome
adversity like some people when you were
talking about that fatigue is an
emotionally driven thing that there's
this feeling that you get and you can
give in to that feeling where you're
like oh my god I fucking can't do this
anymore
and some people are more susceptible to
that than others and they give in to it
quickly I mean for a person here's
here's where you can experience this
like what whether or not your mindset
can affect your endurance get on a
treadmill or a stationary bike or
whatever you want to do for cardio
and then listen to a really kick-ass
song and put on headphones and that song
comes on and you just can't fuckin yeah
you can just go there's something about
that and even if you're tired even if
you're tired and you've put on a good
song like fuck that we're gonna keep
going like nothing has happened you
haven't taken in any kind of a
supplement or any kind of a stimulant
that you haven't gotten an injection in
your body or you're not sucking on some
kind of new gas mmm your body is exactly
the same but through the motivation that
you're getting from this music the
emotional stimulation you're just like
fuck that we're gonna keep going yeah
and you can keep going not only can you
keep going you can go faster you could
push harder you can find these reserves
so the idea is that these reserves are
always there you have to be able to
achieve the state of mind that you
achieve when you hear a really good song
mmm you know and that's true that I
think people don't understand you are
the alchemists of your own body that you
know in terms of neurotransmitters
chemical signals in the brain you can
impact those sometimes yeah you need
external influences music as you spoke
about sometimes you know caffeine but
when you start to control them yeah it
can be so powerful some people do it
naturally ice appears and they've just
got it inbuilt but when you start to
train and I think it's only now that
we're we're going down that route and
looking at that as a you know until
previously it was one of those
intangibles know that you kind of under
appreciate it in any sport
and now we're going on okay yeah you
know that person over there is you know
that mental fortitude or what you're
talking about there is maybe their
ability to alter their own chemistry
biochemical reactions body yeah there's
something real that happens right yeah
like when you hear a song and you get
excited like whatever that yeah whatever
that that burst is it seems like a real
like if that was a pill and you took it
you believe oh this works absolutely I
mean but and the thing is is it's been
around years when you look at like an
you know Marcus Aurelius meditations or
stoic philosophy and they're talking
about you know dialogue being both
external in turn also the the
conversations that go on inside your own
head are just as important as the
conversations you would have with other
people so we've understood this for
years
but it's only just now that we're trying
to kind of apply a little bit of science
to it looking at the psychology in this
mind-body connection but the fact is
yeah some of the greatest ancient Stoics
they were trying to figure out as well
right and when you can start to tap into
that well that can become and it only
might be a particular song you know my
favorite is something you know if you
get into you go into a gym or that
you've got a friend that can bring that
out of you yeah you know my own training
back home so you know Andy Bolton who
was the the first guy to deadlift a
thousand pounds I mean yeah yeah I mean
thousand pounds yeah I mean the clip
when you see it any people's a thousand
pounds for sight it's since been being
by Eddie Hall who did their half a ton
so why lift off fuck Eddie thousand
pounds a little bit less so I think a
thousand pounds was that for I thought a
ton was 2,000 pounds isn't it so yeah
Eddie what's a thousand pounds in kilo
oh you're trying to kill yeah yes sorry
the two so yeah there was two metrics
there so Andy Bolton which was a little
point two kilos per pound no 2.2 pounds
per kilo
yeah and then yeah and when you see him
I mean this is what I love when you
start looking Jesus Christ so this is
Eddie that's his that's his office how
the fuck or his knees staying together
right there look if you look at how big
his body is and how normal sizes knees
are that's like look at the bones and
his knees they look so normal
yeah I mean that is fucking people I
know it's unbelievable
oh my god so when those guys retire how
fucked up with their bodies how would
you know Eddie's Aloha what's Brita
Beast tattooist inside of his arm so
he's gonna argue with them yeah you're a
fucking beast his nose is bleeding
yeah oh that's right right his nose
started spraying blood while he was
without him or another guy though I
think he was another video Arnold
Classic I forgot his name he's Russian
yeah shit was alright but I mean Eddie
against a strength especially with the
deadlift
such a simple movement and and you know
the deadlift is just strength is your
body's ability to generate force you
know so it's neuromuscular like what
your your brain is telling your body so
that goes back to that's
strength deficit right that we were
talking about you're basically saying to
your your body recruit every single
muscle fiber possible and working
conjunctions with ligaments and tendons
and let's get half a ton off the floor
exactly right but when you look and and
and certainly with Andi bones a
thousand-pound lift he had his friend in
his face and he's hitting him in the
face so when we were talking earlier
about against strength deficit is is
that sort of deficit between what you
can voluntarily contract an involuntary
contract that was him obviously
voluntarily contracted no one was
alleged to him in that video you want
but they're there and you do anything
that you can before you actually step
out onto that platform and now I mean he
would have just been you know completely
written off after that that sort of
adrenal dumped afterwards yeah you know
emotionally but and so you have to you
have to think about that have I
forgotten who said it now it might been
prevailed but they said you know a safe
fatigue for competition and I know
you've spoken on the force yeah speaking
pebbles a fascinating guy with his
concepts amazing yeah so he's so ahead
of the curve and I know you were talking
to you it wasn't talking about farmers
strength and that ability to stop short
every single day so never necessarily
going to a complete failure mmm any
one's for us for answer hobby I think it
was yeah talking about continually kind
of avoiding that exhaustion phase and
solely existing in the adaptation phase
yes so you know I mean this goes back to
cell you sort of 1936 a Hungarian
physician who found you know you give
you know took some lab rats give him a
lethal dose of poison they kill over and
died but he found by giving them a
little bit of poison a little bit more a
little bit more that they built up this
intolerance to it and that was the
general lactation syndrome but it was
from that that we discovered stress and
stimuli is the key to any adaptation it
wasn't until the strength and
conditioning community cottoned onto
that and we started to think okay how
can we apply stress and stimuli to the
body to bring about a desired result and
I think certainly now I think that's
kind of overlooked in sport but
certainly the wider fitness industry
that you know it's it's it's easy now in
very sort of marketing driven to
they get fit in you know five easy steps
or you know where as reality is you know
it's get fit in eight months after a lot
of stress and stimuli
yeah that's but that get fit and five
easy steps is really just for it's just
a gimmick to get people who don't
actually work out to get involved it is
and that's why I love what you broadcast
and even with the sober October and
stuff I mean I'm a huge fan of Burt but
people I know he's so funny and everyone
loves Burt but he's a beast as well I
mean it went to rock up and just do a
marathon and again that's a
power-to-weight ratio what he did was
amazing and I've seen he's really fat
right that's what I'm nice okay wink
wink
I forgot you he's a well that's a nice
way she's a fat he's a well-built male
somebody took a picture of my face I'm
burned body and I fucking threw up no
yeah one likes to drink and he's still
he's he is a beast cuz he despite the
fact that he doesn't look like rich role
he still can keep going I'm people I
don't know he was he was very
entertaining the marathon Stefan's
actually watching that as the sports
scientist in me was like that's amazing
and no one's talking about that his
power-to-weight ratio n he's still
running that marathon something that and
and yes at first as funny in as
entertaining it was to watch I honestly
was like Bert that's amazing what's more
amazing is re honestly because re really
didn't work out re came in second place
in he came in second place by only a
thousand points which is the one day I
got a thousand points in a day
so he was really only a thousand points
behind me but it's a crazy day that's
like seven hours of work in a day or so
at least six and a half hours of work in
a day and a lot of it at 80% of your max
heart rate but he still he wasn't doing
anything before this thing started and
he was the first one to figure out that
you get the same amount of points for
80% of your max heart rate as you do for
ninety right I thought you get more for
ninety so I was just trying to kill
myself every day and then I was only
being able to come up with like two
hundred and thirty points and and
somewhere along those lines but
I was I would max out I was doing like
90 percent of my max heart rate for like
30 35 minutes I was like exhausted and
then already figured out that 80 points
pays just as much right and so he
started watching movies while he was on
an elliptical machine and that that just
turned the whole thing into this sort of
steady yeah not fast marathon yeah which
was really fascinating because I never
exercised like that before and it
changed my endurance radically over a
month yeah yeah what's interesting is it
changed my endurance in things that are
explosive like kickboxing okay
what's a having that aerobic base yeah
it's something expect a lot how did
because I would mix that in so I would
do I would do after a while we were
doing so much exercise and I had to do
different things or I would get bored so
I would do a circuit of the elliptical
machine and then I would follow the
elliptical machine with where I do I
would run I would some days I'd run
elliptical machine kick box and on other
days I would do the echo bike which is
an airdyne machine that robe makes and
then I would do the rowing machine and
then I would do the Versa climber and
then I added in that air runner
treadmill which is what is it called Air
Assault
I think Air Assault treadmill yeah which
is a treadmill that you power yourself
you you your feet pushing on it and
pulling it is what makes it go fast it's
not like a treadmill that you keep up
with it's actually more difficult than
actual running 13% more difficult than
actual running on the street so I was
going crazy I couldn't do the same
things over and over again so I kept
mixing them up and when I would mix them
up by the end of the month my kickboxing
was I had way more endurance like I
could do 10 hard rounds and going three
minutes each round and then I would
recover in between rounds the one minute
in between rounds I'd recover quick like
Mark because I'm wearing a heartrate
monitor I'm watching my heart rate dip
yeah it was dipping really quickly and
then I had all this energy and madness
like everything was changing like my
capacity for work changed everything
adapted
I got a little dehydrated one time and I
had pissed it looked like iced tea which
is not good so I started I'm panicking
and wondering about things like rhabdo
Milos's and kidney failure but I didn't
have anything wrong with that was just a
little bit of hydration but what's
interesting to go back what we were
talking about there you just perfectly
described that idea of giving a clear
cellular signal to the body so polarized
training yeah it was you know that 80/20
that you do 80% of your you know your
work your training in that air robic
realm where you can keep doing that it's
you're not gonna over train there you're
gonna avoid that exhaustion phase you
know so sell your indestructible rats
you know you're not gonna keel over and
die from a lethal dose of stress and
stimuli right but then over here you
know you would that 20% it was powerful
it was kickboxing so there you're
working technique but you're fresh so
you're drilling motor patterns that are
completely fresh and not fatigue because
you're doing this 80 percent on an
elliptical trainer while watching a
movie so you're keeping the two
completely separate yes
but considering the body in its entirety
that when it comes together you've
created a more powerful version of
yourself and I think it was interesting
what you just said there about recovery
between bouts as well so when you start
looking at strongman training you know
the some of the strongest guys and one
of these strongest guys in the world all
understood the benefits of cardio
respiratory training you look at you
again jeff capes two-time world
Strongest Man was running fel races and
marathons at 25 Belarus fellow races
it's it's yes quite specific to England
so it's kind of trail running uh-huh but
we call them fell running because you're
going and going through bogs and marshes
and felled trees not necessarily fellow
cheese but just kind of the terrains a
little bit different from a trail run
right so he was doing that when you look
at a Bill Kazmaier
again well Strongest Man a power lifter
but understood the benefits of
cardiorespiratory trying to improve his
recovery between sets Brian Shaw as well
one of the you know the sort of you know
the newest sort of strongman and former
basketball player you know so he had
that cardiorespiratory endurance that
base that aerobic base and then he built
this incredible strength on top of that
aerobic foundation hmm goes back again
- whether you know they knew it or not
they were almost creating an athlete
like they were creating athletes back in
the sort of Soviet Union era when they
were taking athletes going right you're
giving me a kid and I don't know if he's
strong quick good at running running
fast over running fuck I don't know so
we're gonna build this aerobic
neuromuscular base and when they show
any sort of genetic potential to be
strong quick whatever we're gonna hone
in on that and that's only when we're
gonna get specific and you're almost
doing that now you know and certainly
Brian Shaw did it again you look you
look long through all of the best
athletes in the world they've all
followed this blueprint but it's only
now that we're kind of dissecting that
and saying oh okay I'm making a bit more
purposeful who's this gentleman
okay there's Brian Shaw he said yeah
that's wrong with his legs nice one even
now as I I tell you what Jamie if it's
possible actually I mean Brian Shaw he
accidentally you must have seen this
clip set the indoor rowing record I
think it was for a look at the size of
this motherfucker oh my god and he rocks
converse all-stars look at that he set
the visit there's a clip on you that man
my man's weren't chucks he sets that the
cliff on YouTube where he sets the the
rowing record the indoor rowing record
and it was just because he didn't know
sir you know so what things basically
down there he's rowing and it sounds
like someone started an engine and it's
better like this he go and we hear this
so this they've just looked rows of the
mouthpiece look the whole thing they
have to hold it down in the end because
it's coming out of the floor
Christ these guys are standing on it it
sounds like a like just an that's a jet
engine right
all that power from a leg exactly well
no and his bear I mean that technique as
well I mean Brian doesn't mind me saying
it's not necessarily you know Olympic
rowing technique but he doesn't need it
because he's just got silly power
playing a hundred so the hundred well
there's a catch phase and it's more
you're almost treating it more like a
deadlift where you're using your larger
leg muscles where Jesus look at him go
there you go crazy - why believable the
amount of force he can generate he looks
like a very tall man - he's huge
how big is this guy 686 yeah I mean so
that helps - right because the long
stroke absolutely it's just pure power
but anyway so they found that they
during this session I believe what
happened is they said well you know a
rower shouldn't make that sort of noise
he's basically two people put together
he's six foot what 401 654 425 - big
guys strapped together in one body he's
almost 200 pounds above the UFC
heavyweight limit do you know insane
that is 265 he's almost too heavy to
fight in the heavyweight division of the
UFC motherfucker basketball basketball
background and and a still
look he didn't know that he was gonna
set the world record for Rowand so the
rowing record they go his one was twelve
point eight I believe it was 1308 broke
the rowing record but because he had
that neural neuromuscular background
that they said hey Bryan you're big and
powerful just this is a rowing machine
right he went oh okay there you go
congratulations there's a world record
Wow so it's that base that I think's
often I've heard you speak about certain
Eddie as well talking about breakdancers
making great yes you know be today and
again whether you know they had that
neuromuscular foundation they understood
proprioception where then oligomers
tends everything should work right
whereas if you had someone with a
similar work capacity or someone of the
same age everything was the same but
they didn't have that neuromuscular
efficiency you'd say okay
and again this is me so naively again on
don't claim to know anything about BJJ
but you go okay this is an armbar this
is and they kind of go okay let me try
and figure this out and you can see
there's like a Rubik's Cube they're
trying to piece it together but you get
someone again like Brian and you go okay
this is BJJ or something quite complex
that requires you and he I'm not saying
he wouldn't even fight it's too heavy
similar movement to deadlifts which is
very common it is he's used to that
movement it is yeah it is but I suppose
where you saw him you know that wasn't
actually there was no extension of the
back right he was bent over just ripping
there's another one again even to use
Brian is an example where he does I
believe I can't endure the name with a
ward now but he went up and Thor as well
another strong man did a I think it was
a clean and jerk there was a ward that
was predominantly clean and jerk and
there was this amazing crossfitter
technique was beautiful disappearing
under the bar over his head it was
amazing to watch and I think it was Thor
or Brian sure went in and just instead
of a clean injure and Joe honestly he
just basically upright rows the whole
thing and complete and they were like
well that's not a clean and jerk but you
just set a record so there's that
element to use an example as well with
with oh here we go here we go oh my god
okay there's another strong but there is
there's another one of those where you
see the CrossFit with this amazing
beautiful technique he's he's so far
from his chest it's crazy that he's
doing it like that and what is that 225
pounds in the fucking shit that is so
crazy - he could do that he's doing so
many reps right right that is insane but
he doesn't have a pause no back a so
that's meant to be a clean and jerk I
know so that's what I mean about that
neuromuscular efficiency that he's gone
okay here's a new sport come get
involved and he's got a key I see the
rules of your sport but I'm gonna do it
my way and didn't count well yeah I
suppose I mean if that would is just put
the weight above your head like that guy
did it normal that time right
yeah yeah but there's like this if you
put in you know Thor versus CrossFit
that then it will probably come up and
you get to see an amazing crisp
technique mmm and then equally Thor is
basically doing what what Brian was
doing just there I'll say here you go so
this is they keep putting on weight
until one of them I believe the
competition ears you keep not yeah
they're your CrossFit versus amounting
it's amazing technique disappears under
the bar you know incredible and then I
think you know Thor will eventually come
in and give it a go and basically just
upright rows here we go so you saw that
you know disappears on speed of movement
amazing and then thought come come and
have a go at this and this is what he he
produces is that neuromuscular efficient
it's just mad strength it is it is I
mean you could do that too of you just
an empty bar you know I mean like that
kind of person the kind of person they
can do that when you think about him
dead lifting a thousand pounds or any of
these guys that can deadlift in insane
numbers just the whole machine can
generate so much force yeah yeah and
that and that's it though it is they're
able to do that again because of that
foundation they say a body can generate
that force and then you say here's a new
movement yeah and you can see them look
at you know like for that example okay
so that's a clean and jerk okay I can't
figure that I think I've found a way you
know ISO lends credence to the concept
that deadlifts is like the mother of all
exercises because it really does work
all your muscle groups yeah and if you
can get really strong at deadlifts I
mean it really does enhance almost any
single athletic endeavor you participate
in yeah yeah and I think again that
sward have been lost a little bit along
the way that they're you know getting
the joints ligaments muscles everything
to work cohesively you know and when you
do that for your training you can pretty
much apply to anything so I think that's
why I mean I again I used to swim ages
ages ago way back in the day but I was
never gonna make sort of elite standard
I'm you know five nine on a good day
maybe I'm built like a whole bit so
everybody just great great oh yeah
so I ended up again almost accidentally
going into strength training
I played water polo in the end - that's
a fairly good level so I was doing that
but again I just got beaten up I was
sixteen playing in the seniors league
and you know just big guys with beards
just beating me up you know it's
interesting what you were talking about
earlier is in terms of mental fortitude
and your ability to adapt and the
ability to overcome I wonder if we're
ever gonna figure out a way to measure
that like to measure in mental endurance
or measure mental capacity or mental
stimulation you know you can measure
your vo2 max mm-hmm
and you know what the body is capable of
but I wonder if there's a way like when
someone does hear a great song and it
kicks in whether it's through fMRI or
any other type of detection device where
they can figure out a way oh this part
of your brain is firing let's
concentrate on building up the the
activation of that part of that brain of
the brain like like a muscle when like
think of that endurance or think of that
motivation as like maybe even a mantra
that you can call upon because you call
upon it all the time and you can
recreate that state yeah I mean I think
on on that point certainly over in
Britain at the moment so basically or
women for the first time can actually
apply and be in the Special Forces so at
the moment it's really really
interesting because speaking to you
suddenly the raw Marines they were
saying we've got hundreds of years that
if you handers 500 young fit men we can
say there needs to be this weight this
tall and if you give us them we've got
years and years of experience of putting
them through this training system of
mental and physical fortitude everything
down in limb stone it's the the the
training center of the Royal Marines and
we go on this endurance course we go on
a 30-mile jump with a backpack
everything and by the end of 32 weeks
that's what it takes to be a real marine
to get your Green Beret after 32 weeks
we can take you from being completely
not said entry but unfit to being a raw
marine and that's one thing they pride
themselves on but now what they're
saying is obviously you know females can
now apply to Special Forces and what
they find so interesting is and I
certainly do as well is what does that
look like for a female raw marine you
know what does that look like for things
on and again to go back I mean I wrote
an article a ages ago
run like a girl and I was saying I wanna
run like a girl you know someone some of
my best training partners a female and
they their perception to fatigue is
unbelievable that's purely anecdotal but
also as well when you look at the top
tier of ultra marathon runners and
swimming as well Diana Knight first to
go from Florida to Cuba to Florida you
know incredible like she was getting
stung by Portuguese MANOWAR's and just
unbelievable just purely and it but now
they're saying you know why is it that
that certain female athletes have a
greater tolerance e to pain and I think
to your point if we can start to
quantify that because there are
biological differences you take men you
know high testosterone can have an
impact on high hemoglobin generate
muscle force all of these things but but
I think if we could quantify why it is
that certain female athletes are
dominating the top 10 percent of ultra
marathons and and open water swimming
what is it that they're doing that would
be amazing I think the ability to endure
pain and this is not my thought honestly
I should just say this has been
theorized before has to do with their
ability to endure the pain of childbirth
child labor and childbirth I mean just
the fact that they're forcing a baby out
of their vagina and yeah I mean that is
insane I mean you don't do you're seeing
the Machine they do they've taken these
electrodes they put it on men and
recreate the pain of childbirth yet and
watch these men funny fall apart like
fucking turn it off yeah it's I mean
obviously I haven't given birth but it's
supposed to be unbelievably painful and
women are biologically suited to this
this is like so I think their ability to
endure that pain is just it's probably
just there's an evolutionary advantage
to having this more higher capacity but
I also think one of the things that I
learned from teaching martial arts is
that women they learn technique better
many times than men do
because one they listen and two they
don't try to muscle things so women have
less of a problem with learning
something from a person and this is also
true about archery my friend John Dudley
who's an archery coach says his favorite
students are always women because they
listen better they don't have as much of
an ego they don't have to pretend they
already know something they don't want
to just try it without and they follow
it to a tee better like generally
obviously we're speaking in generalities
yeah but they also don't have the extra
muscle that a man has so men are strong
we'll try to just force things and
muscle things where women will try to
follow what's being described to them
what's the proper technique and they
knew it properly all the time and then
they develop this pattern of proper
technique I noticed this with Taekwondo
and I think my friend John said he
noticed this with archery I think this
this this benefits them in sports
because like if you learn jujitsu really
the best people to learn from our
smaller men or women because they the
smaller people they don't have the
physical strength to pull it off on a
big guy hmm so what they have to rely on
is correct technique hmm but if you
learn jujitsu from a big guy man big guy
jujitsu is weird because they could just
grab your wrist and you can't get go you
can't let go and they can get away with
things like okay you go wrist control
and throw the legs up wrist control okay
wrist control on who where I try wrist
control on that big motherfucker that
was rowing the world record they didn't
say man you're gonna go flying through
the air that wasn't really gonna work
right you're gonna have to go against
his strength you're gonna have to figure
out a way to move around it you don't
have to go you're not gonna go through
it right that big guy if he was teaching
jujitsu let's just grab the neck and
then you squeeze it he's got the kind of
horsepower that a man like you know a
normal man can't imagine yeah do you
think that's changing a kenta to bring
it back to the US see I suppose because
now I mean with what Cormier is doing
and you know John Jones coming back you
know the lightweights are all moving up
to heavyweight do you think you know
gone are the days of the huge
dude who was just a physical phenom and
now the smaller technical dudes is that
there's a there's a thought with the 265
pound weight class and the consensus
thought seems to be that somewhere
around 240 pounds is the magic number
that's what they think they think that
240 pounds is the amount of weight that
you have where you're strong enough that
you can knock out any man but you have
more endurance than a man that may be
ways to 65 or heavier and cuts down to
265 okay now this has not been
substantiated the problem is there there
hasn't been a really super powerful
World Championship athlete that weigh
265 pounds there's been Brock Lesnar
but yeah Brock Lesnar's enhanced right
you're dealing with a guy who tested
positive for steroids he probably has
had things and then this is a new world
he's also 40 years old now so it's
impossible to tell what he would have
been like it threw knee if he was clean
and then you have guys like Francis and
Ghana who's 265 pounds massive knockout
artist natural 265 pounds but doesn't
have the wrestling base got exposed in
his fight with ste paimio CH if you
can't knock you out he's kind of doomed
and he tired out after the first round
okay so it's hard to say because there's
never been a 265 pound version of Cain
Velasquez ok Cain Velasquez my humble
opinion when I look at all of the
different heavyweights that I've
personally seen fight Cain stands out as
the best the reason why Cain stands out
as the best is because he has superhuman
endurance yeah and his ability to put a
pace on guys you would see these guys
just wilt under the pressure of and I
think with Cain you this is where it
gets really interesting what did him in
is probably what also brought him to the
top is his mental toughness because his
body started breaking down he started
having all these back injuries you
needed back surgery multiple back
surgeries shoulder surgery knee surgery
everything was getting fucked up and I
think it was getting fucked up because
he was working through pain and because
he has the ability to tolerate pain that
most people don't have
right he's just a fucking animal but
that's also probably what led to him
having this insane endurance mmm is the
same kind of mental toughness I'm sure
there's some genetic advantages as well
because they would talk about how he
would take months off and come back in
still fuck everybody up because he's
just that good but that also could be
attributed to the the cardio base that
he had from competing for many many many
many years at a high level and and being
known for that insane endurance mmm
perceptions of fatigue going back he
said if you could quantify that you'd
put cane up there with one of those
people yes he has that in abundance yes
and anyone else in the heavy weights
then would you say well Cormier for sure
has tremendous fatigue ability to
tolerate fatigue and tremendous
endurance and he breaks people you know
they call him the king of the grind and
but on top of that they would they both
have is tremendous wrestling technique
that the wrestling technique as well as
the endurance everything plays a factor
Jon Jones fits into that camp as well
Jon Jones has tremendous wrestling
technique as well striking technique
massive physical skills but also mental
toughness his mental toughness is
unchallengeable like you you absolutely
have to give it up to him he's had his
arm fucked up by Vitor Belfort
completely hyper-extended refused to tap
and then one up tapping Vitor with a
with a Americana I believe it was the
next round
and toe against Chael Sonnen I was
Thomas fuck even notice in Todd was
interviewing them I was interviewing him
he looked down oh shit look at my tone
he started going to shock was as bad as
turned upside down
it was completely turned upside down I
mean imagine that I mean if he wound up
going into the next round if he didn't
stop Chael Sonnen and his toe was that
fucked up and he wound up losing to
Chael Sonnen because his toe was bad mmm
that's insane he also went through that
fight with Alexander Gustafsson
where he wasn't really training very
hard for that fight and Gustafson won
the first couple rounds and then John
Jones won the last two to take it away
and and I watch that back obviously with
all the promotion at the moment and I
think was wink with Jana Jackson when he
starts shouting the heart heart you know
shouts and that was that that was the
decide I mean that's you know
that was the deciding factor that you
come out and you produce that yeah also
in John Jones's favor I believe he has
to fucking super-athlete brothers yeah
and they used to apparently beat the
shit out of each other all the time and
his brothers are bigger than him right I
think that is a factor because I think
that there's mental toughness that comes
from being around that kind of combat in
the household all the time yeah yeah I
think it's a bunch of different faiths
but it's it's hot you I don't know I
think you can teach that I don't believe
that mental toughness is something you
either have or you don't have I don't
believe that I think you can teach it
but you gotta want it and you gotta be
willing to learn you got to be able to
bring yourself to a state of mind where
you're unbreakable I think it's possible
I really do and some people just have
that that is that mean and I think
they've developed it over a long period
of time and once they finally got to
whether it's wrestling or jujitsu or MMA
they already had it and then they
accentuated it and and added on to it
and then it got stronger and then they
become known for it like that guy is
just an animal he's just a mentally
strong but I think that mental strength
comes from many life experiences and
probably probably the guidance of their
parents or some other role model in
their life that also showed them
incredible endurance and incredible
discipline and this this mental
fortitude I think you can teach it
though yeah I think you know I don't I
don't believe that it's something that's
just either have or you don't have I
think you either have it or you don't
have it but you can get it that's what I
think and you know I'm a huge fan of Dan
Hardy we've been chatting since the the
swim and I always go back to that armbar
with the George st. Pierre and oh yeah
everybody was had yeah and and and I
couldn't get my hat and I can't wait to
catch up with Dan about that and sort of
exchange notes on this idea of mental
fortitude because how he survived that I
mean it was rendered I was cringing
watching well Dan's a savage
I mean he's and he's an intelligent
savage and you know he's he's not like a
thug
are a brutish guy he's a very well-read
intelligent thoughtful guy but he's also
a guy that knows how to dig deep you
know and you know when he fought George
st. Pierre that was his big shot you
know I mean his big shot was against a
guy who was at the time was in his prime
and it was the greatest welterweight
arguably of all time I mean the argument
is it's between him Matt Hughes and I
believe now tyron woodley is in that
camp as well was like that the greatest
welterweights ever but you what you get
out of Dan Hardy is a guy who's thought
things through I mean he it really comes
through in his commentary he's a very
very intelligent guy would you say he's
the same sort of cut from the same cloth
as call me a them because I know Brendan
spoke about this recently saying he's
the most intelligent fighter on the UFC
roster at the moment Cormier yeah but
his approach yeah in his approach and
how he will break people but again you
know when you watch you in the UFC and
betting and stuff you like you can't
help but love Cormier such a nice guy
but and this goes back to what I suppose
you said about the swim you know when it
was like oh you're very smart and stuff
but I see that in Colma he's the nicest
guy but I would never get in the Octagon
with him you don't know fooling anyone
no he's a sweetheart until you're locked
in a cage fuck you up the difference
between him and Dan Hardy though is that
he's a world-class wrestler I mean he
was a two-time Olympic team member and
just one of the best wrestlers to ever
compete in MMA and you really see that
in a lot of his fights like the Derrick
Lewis fight Derrick had no chance like
no chance you know and Derrick just
knocked out Alexander Volkov who in a
lot of people's eyes including mine was
one of the dark horses in the
heavyweight division
but Derrick just did not belong in there
with Cormier who was the light
heavyweight champion he carries a lot of
fat on him yeah he's mean and I think if
if he wanted to if Daniel Cormier really
dedicated himself he could drop down to
185 pounds I really believe that but
he's just you know easy why would he's a
fucking heavyweight champion that's the
difference feeding him and there's many
difference between him and Dan the
success ratio is very different you know
Cory has been extremely successful the
only guys lost was John Joe
you know so but but I find that with
rest and this is on a complete tangent
here but when you talk about that
mind-body connection like so often
they're seen as separate you're over an
intellect or you're just a physical
phenom like it's rare that you see the
two but when again ancient Greek
philosopher you look at Plato like Plato
was an accomplished celebrated wrestler
yes I think he said something along the
lines of you know you should wrestle to
find the answers to that philosophers
sicles it was something like that he
was such an advocate of it and and I
think and again this is coming from you
know sort of my limited background
because obviously in Britain we don't
have have wrestling like over over here
and stuff but there's something about
wrestling it seems or I suppose my
question to you is like that it just
teaches that like mental fortitude yeah
you know yeah physically yeah you and
muscular efficiency and stuff but it
seems to just produce this breed of
humans that you know did you think is
there's something about being faced down
in a mass somebody's just trying to
contort your limbs you know so that to
go back to stress and stimuli you know
it's also building up that progressive
over lot in your own head yes that and
what you just said there about
experiences that that quite often now
when I go swimming I'm like it's not the
career vacant I'm not wearing a
jellyfish
tentacle on my face you know it's not
that bad right and I think what did do
you that summer my question is do you
think it's the same with wrestling that
you like I've been in a worse position
than this I think for sure I think
there's the the strength that they have
the intellectual strength and when I say
intellectual strength there's actually
solving puzzles whether people
understand it or not you look at
wrestling you think it's always brute
force and strength and endurance but
they're solving puzzles right they're
setting traps they're trying to set up
techniques and they're doing this under
heavy workload right they're exhausted
their hearts pounding and they're
resisting a hundred percent with another
person who's resisting a hundred percent
yeah when you see guys tie up and
throwing each other around and they're
fucking digging their toes into the mat
ain't getting and wrenching there's a
tremendous amount of force that they
have to keep up for minutes and minutes
at a time
and I think a lot of that has to do with
your ability to maintain intensity and a
lot of that has to do with your ability
to tolerate being exhausted and tolerate
fatigue hmm and to force yourself into
an a highly aggressive and efficient
mindset and to be able to maintain
proper technique under fatigue that's a
good point technique and intelligence I
believe again I was with the Royal
Marines we can be when training with
them I find that it's crazy how you you
don't have the cognitive functioning of
the five-year-old you know you are
completely right you're in a 30-mile
yawn with 50 kg on your backpack and
somebody asks you some really complex
question and you're just like I you know
I don't know well you know and and I
think certainly going back to the swim
there's times where I said to the team I
was like please like when when I'm six
hours into a swim through the night I
need just really clear instructions yes
like raw swim this way Ron Ross wind
that direction and again purely
anecdotal for the moment but you know I
love cowboy Cerrone and there's times
when he's just in his corner and he's
just having a full-on collie so relax
yeah you know and it's just like that
you you could see somebody probably
fatigued and they're panicking and he's
just sitting on the stool like he's got
great Durance to that that helps that
certainly helps his ability to recover
right hey Trina rounds you see his fight
this weekend I've got to catch up when
it was a variation on sensational the
best he's ever looked but he was on the
bottom when Perry can when yeah I mean
Perry took him down but he said to me
goes he goes he started to take me down
was like shit I'm gonna let him he said
I'll let him take me down and then he
reversed him immediately and got him in
an armbar and then broke his arm he
snapped his forearm in half he sent me
the x-rays yeah yeah I think anybody
seen this oh sorry Donald I'm not
supposed to turn this I gotta send this
shit yeah we've been going back and
forth and you know for him I think it
was a matter of rekindling his
excitement here it is yeah it was a
pretty emotional but oh oh that hurts
right can you see that you want me to
send it to you here I'll send it to you
Jamie also I think with Donald when it
comes we were talking about stimulation
and motivation he has a son
here's a little baby son and he brought
his son into the Octagon with him who's
celebrating with his son he just seemed
different to me he seemed different in
his poise completely in control the guy
who's fighting Mike Perry is fucking
dangerous
he's fucking dangerous he hits really
hard he's very aggressive and Donald
just handled him and and Perry took him
down I think he didn't like what was
going on stand up wise
he just snapped that shift but but you
mentioned there as well we're severely
talking about his son and it was such an
emotional post that he posted on
Instagram I loved it and and and going
back to what you said about finding
something that that alters your
biochemistry you know and now that he's
fighting for something and you knees got
is good did you think that's that's what
we were talking about music before my
getting is my say maybe you use caffeine
like whatever it is but something you
think is now different in Cerrone
because you know it's love yeah yeah the
love of his chair as children he has
something that mean he what he said was
I never knew what I was fighting for I
said now I have something to fight for
I think he was fighting for excitement
before for thrills cuz he's a he's a
thrill see he's a wild motherfucker he
likes jet skiing and jumping snowmobiles
off the side of mountains and he's an
animal
week before a fight but yeah he doesn't
give a fuck he doesn't know but this is
a different thing with what he's doing
in in this fight in particular I think
this is a different thing because he's
fighting for his son I mean he's got
this family now and it means the world
to him and he looks over at this guy
like this guy's trying to take food from
his family and he just was an efficient
assassin it was just it was beautiful to
watch it was like I think the best
performance of his career and you know
maybe Mike Perry is not as good as
Darren til or is Hafele dos Anjos or
some of the other people that he's
fought in the past but he's fucking
dangerous and he's a legit welterweight
where Donald's not Donald confided 155
pounds it's one of the things Donald
said after the fight he said khabib he
goes I'm back I'm coming for you and so
he wants to drop down to 155 and fight
khabib do you think he might know
something's different do you think do
you think
Thank You Comiket r1 will zoom and
khabib is the motherfucker of all
motherfuckers agrees you know I mean
who's gonna beat that dude but that dude
Molly Watson maybe but Askren is a
different weight class see astron 70 and
khabib x' 55 if kabhi Ben Askren agreed
to a caffeine spice that is absolutely a
possibility and absolutely a possibility
that a screen could best him because if
someone's gonna beat khabib it's gonna
be someone who's a superior wrestler and
Askren is a motherfucker of a wrestler
but is he better than kabhi we really
don't know and we will not know until
they they fight but I do have to say
that khabib in the training camp at aka
this is coming straight from Cormier and
a bunch of other people who trained with
him say that he trains with Olympic
caliber wrestlers and fucks them up
that's how good khabib is khabib is he's
he's so goddamned good on the ground
when he gets a hold of guys they look
perplexed and I always bring up the
Edson Barboza fight cuz a moment in the
barboza fight in the first round where
he'd that thousand-yard stare where it
could be but taking him down he was
mauling him and he looked over in the
distance like how the fuck am I gonna
get through three rounds of this shit
yeah and that's thingamabob poser I mean
Terry acted that kick yeah so to see
that it was just I mean it felt like if
I was to do mixed martial arts did you
just say I know you spoke about it
before you said if somebody doesn't know
you know what they're doing like like me
it's like drowning you know and and
that's exactly how I would you know feel
I think it was just humbling in its way
but it's something that you could learn
see the thing what you've done in my
eyes what you've done is so difficult I
think you could do anything I really do
I think what you did by forcing yourself
to do that shit for six hours a day take
a break six hours again to do 12 hours
of swimming every day for five fucking
months that kind of mental fortitude if
someone just taught you I mean obviously
you're very physically strong and fit if
someone just taught you technique and
taught you how to grapple and taught you
kickboxing you would be a motherfucker
at
because your mind is so strong that that
you know there's a different mindset to
have that same kind of mind strength
with the adversity of another human
being trying to kill you yes that's the
thing how well do people deal with other
people so like there's something about a
person breathing down your neck that's
trying to choke you that's very
disconcerting but if you can get past
that and I think you could you would be
a motherfucker or anything you did and
that's actually the thing I mean even at
the moment now I'm used to just training
for 12 hours a day so right now I'm
still sort of in biphasic sleep so I've
only been on land really a week so
that's crazy
yes are you sleeping in a boat this
whole time yeah yeah six thousand
dollars off what is it like to have the
ground not move dog is standing boom
honestly when I got on I was I mean I
was doing media interviews and
everything was swaying you know this is
this is it but even even that night my
first night the the bed it sounds so
weird but the bed was just a bit too
stable it's a bit too comfy Wow
I woke up in the middle of the night I
was with my girlfriend and I'm looking
for my goggles you know thinking with
tides about to jump back in yeah and she
was just go back to bed and like
honestly I say it now like sort of
joking but there was a real element of
you know just that you'd been
conditioned and all I really cared about
as soon as I woke up I wanted to know
what the tides were doing you know what
where is it running how when does the
start winds how have we got good tidal
bad side is it spring tides or neat tie
so spring tides being strong and neat
ties better and that was my currency
that's all I cared about
yeah and it was really strange that you
to try now and integrate back into
society you know even just walking you
know through LA the cars everything
moves very fast now you know and you
kind of come back and it's a it's a bit
of a shock it's a real you must feel
like you're in an alternate universe or
something look to go through five months
of one reality and then to come out on
the other end yeah it does so what I
almost but but then even it's not
intrinsically or something my body's
used to working hard for 12 hours a day
and just getting battered by wave so at
the moment you know I'm sort of sitting
here and you know I've been doing metre
it's been amazing but there's an element
of me just kind of go in I need to use
this work capacity and so I am sort of
training at the moment the first session
I did I was in there for like six hours
and I was and they were like the gym
shut you crazy but one of the things
that we all talked about after sober
October was that none of us had ever
done anything like this before but we're
worried now that we're gonna go back to
our sedentary ways and they were gonna
lose all this work that we put in
because at the end of the month re who
had never worked out before ran 15 miles
road five kilometers and then got on the
bike for a while I forget what he did on
the bike but I think he did at least a
mile on the bike and this was a four
plus hour workout but he had never done
anything before I mean he did jujitsu I
bought him some jujitsu lessons I bought
him a year at tenth planet jujitsu like
like ten years ago he went for a while
and then he hurt his knee and stopped
going but he was ten years of nothing
hmm
and he's fucking forty something years
old and it forced himself that's mental
fortitude
so he's shifted I mean I was so like the
human body I found it so lazy like we
love homeostasis a habitual level what
we're used to doing you know that status
quo and then when you do shift that and
it's all relative because you know it
can be you know swimming for 12 hours a
day and stuff but it's relative and and
I think when you do shift that it is
hard and I think you have to be so
conscious of that so even now I look for
instance my legs at the moment you know
shrunk but not just my legs I mean I
essentially skip leg day you know for
157 days it's like your arms must be
jacked is kind of it so we went into the
gym the other day and and because of
like ligaments tendons but not only just
generating force like a bench press but
if you imagine like 40 knots of wind you
know wind over tide that we're talking
yeah my shoulders are used to being
contorted in ways that they shouldn't be
so your shoulders are resisting the
winners it's coming towards me so you're
you're especially with your shoulders
yeah I knew my times I would take a
stroke and then a win I mean there's
times when the
waves hit me so hard I thought I'd just
hit a boat you know I hit something and
that would be poor so it was that
resistance as well so on the bench press
it was just kind of like took you know
160 you know not saying it's necessary
as a sort of sport science experiment I
kind of unlifted and then just took 160
kilos just for a ride and it just kind
of felt okay what's 160 kilos sort of
160 kilos in sorry Jamie
but then equally my legs you know in the
squat I'm barely lifting my own body
weight 53 53 50 year for you know eight
reps says it's that that sort of
strengthen and so you had lifted weights
in five months and yet you like upper
body but but bleep but lower body no you
know and and it's not even that though
like you know my legs it's the-- it's my
feet as well so right now genuinely and
a lot of people afterwards like what are
you gonna do next you know what's the
next adventure and I said I've got to
learn to walk again and everyone laughed
and I was like naina nude like the
arches in my foot of collapsed these
ligaments and tendons so it's I mean I
think a lot of collabs just from not
standing yeah I mean yeah you got to
think 12 hours in the water every day
but even when I was on the boat I was
probably eating or sleeping whoa I
didn't even think about that so your
load capacity or ability to like hold
your body weight up that's diminished
yeah I almost entered into this small
group of people like astronauts where
you've been in a non-weight-bearing
environment for so long so I joke and
when we watch that video back in our
second our jaws you know try not to fall
over there genuinely I was thinking
please don't just fall over with all the
camera on laughing and another thing
that intrigues me is you're a young guy
you're not a lot of these endurance guys
are old angry people
they get older and they develop this
ability to just fucking fuck the world
and and and push through things how old
are you yeah a three yeah that's very
young to do what you did isn't it
yeah and I think you're right actually
and that that would be a really sort of
good point to make there that I always
think when people say I'm too old
now to train and stuff I'm not
absolutely not when yes granted when
you're younger elasticity in your
ligaments yeah higher testosterone
muscle mass ability to you know increase
muscle muscle stuff absolutely but when
you're older and to your point there Joe
when you look at these you know back in
England fell running which we're talking
about you get these guys who just look
like they live in the mountains you know
where the thick faces you know their
calves are just like this just thick
calves and they have that capillary
density that like mitochondrial
efficiency movement efficiency so their
cardio respiratory Durance has just been
built up from years and years and and
these sorts of people as well they
almost they love the mountains and and
running so much that they don't care
that they're overtraining or like they
need a rest occur there we go honestly
Christ when I'm throwing I am getting
lapped you Neela yeah ok you have to
wear those shorts no composure he seems
like it is numbers next to you dick
that's weird too those are those are
shorts that a girl would wear in a porno
movie it's called the Bob Graham so
there's a famous fella race going back
to sort of the bargain rush there's a
famous fell race back in English called
the Bob Graham and you know legend has
it there was a guy Bob Graham and he
sort of said you know I think I can do
forty four peaks in the Lake District in
under 24 hours and they were no no no
that's not possible it's not possible he
said yeah so that was like a bet in a
pub you know and they're like yeah and
sure enough that's what he did and so
there's this race now called the bagram
and it's amazing in that it's it's
steeped in history in heritage that
there's a a hall in Keswick which is a
small town it's called moot hall and if
you were standing there Joe and your
you're running gear with those shorts
huh but you were running there with your
running gear and you had your hand on
moot halt and you were looking at your
watch like that runners would walk past
you in just be like oh he's about to do
his Bob Graham you know they'd come over
there's that real solidarity that my
good luck good luck answer and then you
have to do it in 24 hours and Billy
bland who's the one who set the record
which has only just been beaten by
Kilian Jornet who recently ran up
Everest as well I think yeah so many
savages are base so this and what I love
about this is yeah yeah there you go
Kilian Jornet so the guy behind in the
blue set the record says there I needed
to suffer says Kilian Jornet after
breaking the record that has stood for
36 years 36 years Wow I needed to suffer
but but these guys and it goes back to
you know too often it's sports science
sports nutrition let's look at look at
your gait analysis running biomechanics
what Footwear are you using minimal
issues on whereas with this with fell
running it took 36 years for somebody to
get close to that record yes doing so
far back granted you need to know the
terrain like you could on this descent
on this picture for instance you could
be running down there struggling down
the rocks and you might not know that
just you know 50 meters to your right
there's a perfect sheep trail and that's
kind of the concept of fell running so
it's just a matter of getting up and
above and over it no matter what path
you take yeah yeah but certainly
efficient if you know something and so
that guy in the front there is pacing
him basically because it's very easy to
get lost on there's no specific path
that you have to take you have to get
over it there's certain points that you
have to get you but then in terms of the
terrain and perhaps it no not really so
it's just point to point to point to
point how do they mark those points do
they have our cones well I mean this
year will be long established that to do
the Bob Graham you need to do that point
that point and then you come back to MU
Hall you know within hopefully 24 hours
and if you do it then you have you but
they're back please have your Bob Graham
these guys look like a guy that would do
that whereas you don't right this is my
point about you and during
it's like how your physique you don't
see a guy with your physique doing this
kind of stuff yeah you think that you
could do this kind of stuff running I
mean no I and I always say I'm not
self-deprecating and how much do you
weigh about 100 kilos which is a lot
considering 20 yes that's about 120
pounds yeah yeah so aren't yet the Bob
Graham is something complete different
and that goes back to what we were
talking about about power-to-weight
ratio right in a weight bearing sports
it was something like running cuz you're
so heavy
yeah oh you have a lot of power yeah do
you think it would be possible if you
put if you added more power to obviously
not now because you're getting off for
five months on a boat but if you built
your legs and your feet back up do you
think you could do this yeah I do you
think I'm just possibly on surf but
nowhere near I mean Kilian Jornet what
he's he's amazing I mean with Killian he
I believe don't come out he's almost
sort of semi-nomadic he grew up in the
hills semi-nomadic ya know so for him he
would run a marathon to go and get his
you know carton of milk in the morning
oh Jesus you know so when you are lining
up on a start line I mean if you're
racing it can you look over and you've
got a guy like that
fuck yeah you can't beat that guy but
he's but he is built for that this is my
bike so you but you don't think that
guy's built for swimming like if that
guy had to do what you did swimming wise
he would be at a disadvantage
over a certain difference going back to
the bell rang that somebody like that
and in my experience when I have raced
or swum with you know guys who are doing
you know 10 kilometer they they will be
quicker than me over 10 kilometers but
then it gets to a point when we're like
you thirty kilometers in where their
biomechanics just because of muscle
injures that starts to break down maybe
as well and this is so often overlooked
actually but you've got to train your
digestive system so again this is mainly
anecdotal but you know in strength based
sports you know a lot of guys won't
think anything about putting away 15,000
calories a day which is what I was doing
so I'm doing that while you're swimming
yeah 15,000 yeah 15,000 calories
what was it in a lot of it you were
sitting down once
got inside the boat yeah what were you
eating just it was so intuitive so it
was it was kind of strange because the
diet was calorie dense so you have to
make up for your calorie requirements
the day also looking at nutrient dense
cuz you got a care for your immune
system but equally palatability so when
my tongue was falling upon you know I
needed to look at that and even
seasickness who's not really spoke about
as well which is kind of like you need
something that hits those four points
and that's 15,000 calories a day so for
me that was quite often just like
porridge oats you know mixed with honey
mixed with almond butter and then even
like an oh here we go
yeah so this is you eating what's that
yeah oh there might be one there
somewhere yeah what is that in there Bo
beans mostly yeah and this is what just
got to the point where it was like what
can you just like what he's gonna so I
was just eating out the pan just trying
to shove it in your face yeah so I what
what would you eat like what would the
fool this this is probably quite a good
one yeah like so yeah there you go like
in terms of so essentially as a
nutritional sort of in theory the
framework you get what was that mask oh
so that was to stop the jellyfish
oh no but it doesn't matter like even
the mask is the giant jellyfish of
Scotland there'll be a pitch on there
somewhere they're kind of like six feet
long so when you're swimming at night
and you can't see them the tentacles
will they'll just kinda they'll get you
and so I got like they can go in your
mouth and you're in I got one in my ear
I got like wet willy by a jellyfish it
just kind of got me there so it's like
that that yeah they're trying to find
and adapt the same way with the mass but
nutritionally as well but also looking
it as a framework you're having your
protein which is pretty stable you know
1.7 grams per kg of body weight per day
you know that kind of stays the same so
then for the rest of the 15,000 calories
you basically need to make it up with
your two energy-yielding makarand you
change so carbs and fats and so for me
it was very calm dependent because when
you are swimming for a giant whirlpool
you can't say can I have some fats which
the body has to go a certain process is
gonna take longer no you just need
fast-acting carbohydrates but then
equally looking at MCTS so a medium
chain triglycerides as well which are a
fat so they have the calorie density of
a
but they're treated more like a
carbohydrate rather than long chain
triglycerides so there was a certain
amount of site so a lot of people would
say you know a fifteen thousand calories
that mean pizza or in everything it's
like well you know yes to an extent but
then place too much emphasis on that and
you're not caring for your immune system
as well right to get 15,000 calories I
think yeah I always point out that it's
using things like MCTS which will find
in coconut oil and certainly again not
to get too much on the science but
capric and caprylic acid which are
converted to ATP adenosine triphosphate
it's a molecular energy the muscles when
you understand how to use em see T's
like that it can be quite easy to make
up 15,000 calories you know you try and
make up 15,000 calories of vegetables
right yeah exactly especially you might
have like protein and then fruit and it
requires a different digestive enzyme
and then you're gonna tell me to go and
swim for a giant whirlpool and roll on
my stomach for 12 hours a day it's just
like with seasickness it's not gonna
happen yeah you just you must need a lot
of a really dense foods yeah and and
that's the thing that it goes back to
again this this bell curve that I've
spoke about but you know what quite
often a lot of endurance athletes that I
train with who are amazing they're
unbelievable they're sub-3 our marathons
they're incredible you know they're
they're the guys that will go and run
the Bob Graham but quite often they say
but Ross can just eat and it's just like
yeah that's often overlooked you know
that my body you know I didn't have a
sick day for out the whole swim that's
really was that attribute and I pop I
started at 92 kilos and you know when
you when you look at the pictures from
the start to the finish I just look like
just like hereok yeah but just also just
bulk because you are asking your body to
swim around Great Britain so it's not
just the fact that you are you don't
want to be in a calorie deficit can you
imagine how much microtrauma the body's
gonna go through so you're essentially
just trying to nurse the body saying
look I know this is horrible I know it's
cold I know I'm asking you to swim for
12 hours a day I know there's gonna be
jellyfish toxins I mean not something
off stung like and in 20 times in one
night in a single tide you know so it
got to the point where
I talked about my face or changing shape
but equally the toxins in your body your
heart would start beating faster and you
know so there was just this idea that
just eat just to look after the body so
when it comes to nutrition and were you
taking any supplements were you taking
vitamins yeah lots and and that goes to
like I said that calorie density mm-hmm
but also to make sure that you're making
the immune system yeah you're taking
everything from super green shakes you
know to multivitamins to protein shakes
just to make sure that you were
supplementing that calorie density I
think so often overlooked the higher
turnover of like phytochemicals enzymes
micronutrients what about fish oil
anything yeah mega threes yeah and
that's what just anything that you were
thinking well this is even two glutamine
to a higher turnover of amino acids so
after a for instance after training as
well you can have all the protein in the
world but if it has a low biological
value so I can I'm gonna try and keep
score but if you look at you know
immediately after a workout you know
your body's basically saying look when
you protein to repair and regrowth
protein synthesis and your muscles are
saying please but if you don't have a
high concentration of leucine
specifically so branched chain amino
acids leucine within that is what will
trigger to your motor receptors to
basically repair and regrow so quite
often you can have all the protein in
the world but if it's of a low
biological value if it's not very good
quality protein your body's not going to
assimilate it right so it's not about
the protein that you eat it's about the
protein you assimilate right so you
would take branched chain amino acids
post-workout yeah yeah and specifically
I said leucine just to make sure that I
was kick-starting that whole recovery
process because as soon as you got out
of the water after six hours there's
always the temptation just I want to
pass out I want to just go to bed I want
you know and it's just like no you've
got now what about your protein what
you're getting it mostly from a lot of
whey protein deficiency and also as well
you've got to think in terms of the boat
and Stocking food like a perishable you
know food so you know as much as I love
my barbecue ribs and everything
like that that wasn't gonna happen wrong
this small galley that we had on the
boat right so did you get any fresh food
eggs anything along those lines we did
yeah when we could stop in a harbor
would you know the team would go out I
never touch land but they could go and
quickly provision from land and bring a
bat but ultimately yeah it would it was
trying to find a way that was was
sustainable as possible that within the
parameters that we had
yeah and that was what was tricky what
about your joints I would imagine
repetitive stress of swimming would
wreak havoc on your shoulders yeah and
that's why this goes back to I suppose
this goes back and I lost a chance a
rich role about this actually where once
she developed that sort of horsepower
program that work capacity that was
talking about before from when I ran the
marathon pulling a car it was this is
such a strange story but I then there
again to raise money for that for the
Teenage Cancer Trust I I climbed a rope
but I think it was a 10 meter rope but I
repeatedly climbed it until I climbed
the height of Everest
so it was 8,848 meters and it was that
that actually taught me the movement
efficiency plays such an important role
in terms of endurance because you you
could be you could have the best
muscular endurance the world cardio
spirit injuries but if you can imagine
with a rope climb if you're solely
relying on your muscles your arms like
the bicep tendon is just you know and
then you can be the fittest guy in the
world but within that kinetic chain
something's going to give like the
weakest part so you'll write from that I
had the work capacity from the marathon
then from the rope climb I certainly
understood movement efficiency and sort
of transferring those skills over to
swimming I knew that you couldn't swim
like a conventional swimmer everything
that I taught you especially in waves
and everything so I ended up developing
quite a weird technique that looked
really slow and comes to my all so I
almost looked asleep but you know it was
really rolling and that's why I asked
you about swimming and even looking at a
bird again to use hims up I know it is
triathlon but for everything that is
taught about swimming it's probably for
someone who looks like you know Michael
Phelps or you know
amazing specimen swimming so you see in
birds fat as always I I am so I'm saying
that but for the record you heard that
Jamie for the record I've heard it as I
repeated on record I think a specimen of
a male his belly hanging out its most
ridiculous is after he ran a marathon is
this pre or post as I brought to because
he really lost a lot now there yes
he lost 18 pounds during sober October
he's the only one that lost weight I
gained weight but it was that vide cuz
he was dancing in his bathroom yeah he
wasn't he would they look at this photo
and impact that that's not even the
worst one I love wise Bert Kreischer
Chrysler so fat that is a fine specimen
of nine that's the one that's one but is
he because he wore those for the wayand
is he got me sober octo he's got a bunch
of those he's got more than one for him
that's what he wears I love him
the fact that he ran a marathon with
that body it's amazing it's like yeah
running LeMans in a Pinto calm up but
and everything that that's not real it's
not that big that's a Photoshop or
something but it would be the same it
would be the same with you that if we
were looking at your swimming technique
they'd be CERN everything that you'd
probably learn probably wouldn't be
applicable to you because of how broad
you are how things that you could
actually use so I was basically really
engaging the lats that wraps the larger
muscles of the back going back to the
the video with Brian Shaw when he was
just ripping that yeah yeah you're
ripping out the floor and and I knew
that I couldn't necessarily do that
looking at delts high catch high elbows
right well you can do high elbows for a
hundred and fifty seventy days but our
right you knew so everything that I'd
learn and certainly you know great
friends of mine who are in a Liam tank
got 50 meter world record of a
backstroke in a Korean pain double world
champion
10 K these are amazing athletes I'm not
wanted them so you developed a more
efficient slower a style that you could
continue for five months yeah and you
just end up it's like moving meditation
it just became like you know the
limiting factor was just like I was just
getting bored I wasn't actually
breathing what were you thinking of this
is the thing I mean you had any given
time any tied you had to think of
something that was going to be more
powerful than the thought of stopping or
fatigue or si else's like deeper into
your skin and so sometimes it was real
easy because you were swimming with
dolphins minke whales that's one with a
basking shark did they come over to you
yeah brilliant yeah there's a video of
the ages ago with the the minke whale
and the house for 12 hours cross the
Bristol Channel so that's kind of
England to Wales and this but this was
without doubt for all the hardship that
I've spoke about I just want to say that
there was some amazing moments this one
particular moment swimming across the
Bristol Channel and all of a sudden
minke whale kind of about because this
table breeches right next to me I was
like whoa like to me surprise I turned
to map the captain I was like man am i
safe like what's going on actually I get
out the warranty said no you're
absolutely fine and I was like is he's a
minke whale that they find they're
friendly I was like okay fair enough
so I keep swimming and then for the next
five miles the minke whale circling me
it was breaching over the top it was
coming under me and swimming like that
well I turned him out I said like now
what's going on and he said I've never
seen this he's been sailing like 40
years he says I've never seen this he
said but what I think is happening is I
think it's a female and I trying to fuck
you
well I said it's not mating season is
fine again what I think happen you for
later four months in this water I'm
gonna fucking mating season is probably
right around the corner she's like if he
sticks around no Matt said no no I think
it's a female I think that she thinks
that you're an injured seal and so for
the
five miles she basically guided me all
the way to the shallower water Wow and
as I got there it was literally the
depth for the water Matt said yeah yeah
much shallower water and we turned whale
breached one more time and then and then
swam off as if to say you know you're
safe now
Wow amazing that's incredible amazing
yeah so for all of the hardship and
everything that I described there were
moments and sunsets and and and swimming
with seals and and it was amazing whoa
so that's the basking shark is that what
you encountered yeah so that was in
that's the actual one you encountered I
don't know if I can't I mean I assume
but seems like you could swim in there I
was I was concerned about that one but
they know so that's a basking shot so
they're friendly
right at the mat can you imagine seeing
that like yes swimming free Scotland not
mountains either side of you and so so
to your point about asking what you
think about it's very easy to swim when
when you know there's dolphins and
everything but there's times when you
are lost in this moving meditation but
then you see something like that and you
very quickly got to get your wits about
you yeah because because there were
killer whales as well up you know coming
from sort of Iceland around the top of
Scotland so that was that was a concern
were they interested in knew what
thankfully we didn't see any but they
wouldn't attack you or anything well so
this is it so we were speaking with
marine biologist at the time saying look
like what's what's the situation here
and they said well you know what's
really interested they're so intelligent
you know killer whales are so
intelligent and they've never been known
this was what they said to me they've
never been known in in the wild to
attack a human and I said okay fantastic
and they said however if they're gonna
attack a human it's probably gonna be
you because no one's ever spent that
amount of time in the water as well you
know so I was like right they said all
right so they just said look all you
need to do is make sure that you don't
look like a seal because they might
mistake you for a seal but they might
bite you but then they will go oh whoa
that that intelligent that'd be like oh
that doesn't taste like a seal so they
might you know so I was just trying my
best not to look like a seal well I
think when they've attacked people in
the wild though it's always in them in
captivity it's always been trainers yes
I've been Aang
frustration yeah you know and that was
my experience with the minke one I think
it was people said like how do you swim
at night because suddenly around
west of Scotland it was a depth of 200
meters so you just you can't you don't
know what's under you so there was that
element but but I think having swum with
the minke well around the Bristol
Channel I was very aware that in the
hierarchy of the sea I was very low down
the pecking order and and if it's
comforting in any strange way I was like
look if I was gonna be eaten I'll be
eaten in the day just as much as I'll be
eaten at night right you know it's just
it's just one of those just darkness
yeah yeah just like you can't you can't
see the hand in front of your face it's
like the more ether for instance we were
40 Mars away from land and this kind of
cutting across this huge Bay across the
top of Scotland and you know it was
clouded over so there was not that you
couldn't even see anything because
there's no moon lights or no stars and
it was you in that complete sensory
deprivation you can hear everything and
it's just if you hear a noise a rip or
like I really hope that's not a killer
whale but they know you've then got six
hours to contemplate more it's so it's
this and again like I said Marcus
Aurelius meditations stoic philosophy
that the conversations you have in your
own head are just as powerful with other
people and I certainly found that all
the way around that you just there was
times when you am i doing out him like
seriously and that comes from I think
you know this this idea of you have to
be doing it for the right reasons and
and I've again to bring it back to MMA I
suppose it's really fascinating me you
know some fighters you know Liddell
coming out of retirement we all tease
and certainly you know you know
McGregor's made so much money you know
what would get him back out of time it's
come a fight Mayweather and you know
again I've been out at sea so I didn't
quite understand what was going on there
with the his kind of going over to his
Japan fighting and it's like what does
he need he's got so much money what
would all the way whether yeah they were
the spends money he suspends my like
crazy he was gonna fight tension tension
how do you pronounce his life this is ya
know so I've been out
see so I didn't really see what was
going on here yeah let me see if you
find that on my Instagram he's out of
his fucking mind would that been a bad
idea boy he was a head kicked into a
coma but but you kind of asked like what
what what are the reasons and I think a
I think he spends a shit ton of money he
thinks they're saying they're trying to
get it back on track said Floyd had been
duped into agreeing to the contest like
they will dupe him by the way they are
very different if those if this happens
believe you me he's gonna get kicked in
the head
Wow they're gonna they might say no no
Kiki no Kiki listen man you get in the
ring with tension he's gonna try to
roundhouse kick you into another fuckin
dimension so it was a special battle so
there's gonna be no kicking I don't know
if they agreed to the rules Wow okay but
tension not suka was I think he's 20 he
I think he's 20 years old he's a really
fantastic talent Wow
yeah I mean he really is but but it
fascinates me so I'm catching up on all
this like I said so I've missed all of
this for 150m they looks at I even
missed the McGregor and caapi vine says
go do striking breakdowns on Instagram
Lawrence Kenshin has he's done a bunch
of breakdowns as is Brendon Dorman's
done a bunch of breakdowns - intention
but uh his lawrence Kenshin has this
really fascinating video of him fighting
this world muy Thai champion and he
wheel kicks him in the head was more
like a jump spinning back kick to the
chin but the way he did it it was like a
really weird angle and you could see him
setting it up he's really creative and
he just found like a weird opening for
this guy and just kicked this guy into
oblivion right he's nasty and he's
really sneaky like the kind of
techniques that he lands very clever
with his reads and his understanding of
distance and and what's possible right
you see it striking breakdowns on an
Instagram huh
but the end it's with this that it you
know how much money does he need
don't spend that much oh that's a good
question I think he can but and this is
what I love again I'm only just catching
up one of this like said out you I
should point out happen at sea 457 days
but with everything that happens
striking breakdowns on that I just got
to it
striking breakdowns start coming up no
maybe there's something wrong with
Instagram hmm I don't know I got it
right here here I'll send you the link
so we could see yeah anyway I'll send
you this copy link sorry folks but this
is a I don't know how much they were
offering him you know so I don't know
how much okay I just sent it to you I
don't know I mean it has to be millions
of dollars that's the only way he'd be
willing to do it
mhm but if they offer and he also
tension is quite a bit smaller I think
he weighs 130 and Floyd walks around
he's fought at 150 for 150 ish and foot
McGregor was at 55 mm this this kid is
fucking nasty man but he does a lot of
wild shit like there's a there's a video
here they see him fight this Muay Thai
guy and he hit some with this crazy
that's when he was a little kid like see
how he does shit like that like sneaky
shit I'm the only this man zip-zip and
that he was younger this crank this is
the one with the world muy Thai champion
boom puts that due to sleep but the way
set it up that's a weird angle for that
kick very tight yeah yeah very tightly
and it wasn't a round it was straight so
it was basically like a jump spinning
back kick to the chin she's hard to
generate force
oh no no no no power yeah no as long as
he can get extension on his legs it's
just he had a jump and talk and spin
but the fact that he chose that angle
it's like he realized that the guy was
gonna see things that were coming around
yeah
so instead of coming around he had it
come up and and through the middle right
which is which made it much sneakier but
that's what we described me now is it
never intangible right yeah in
creativity yeah exactly I mean and what
I found it so interesting when you know
McGregor and Diaz and I was just saying
I'm a huge fan of IDO portal so you know
he was doing but I was just like look
and I think it was um I think McGregor
was on I want to say Kimmel but I don't
think it was he was on a chat show and
he was talking about that spinning
capoeira Crescent yeah and he actually
did it he performed it and I was like
look if he lands that you know the same
way with Aldo would be like that is the
movement is is it you know you don't
forget cardiorespiratory endurance
strength everything that we talked about
there the metric saying you know heavy
what you got to be two four five you
know whatever the Milan no it's just
movement he would've reinvented again
well and I mean come is wrong I think
with yes he did try it didn't he and it
missed I think um I believe he did
through it I think he through it the
thing you know that technique is a legit
technique obviously wheel kicks most
certainly works yeah but it's not a high
percentage technique it doesn't it so
there's only been a few wheel kick
knockouts in in the UFC the first one
was Edson Barboza over Terry Adam that
was number one there's been a few since
then Vitor Belfort shocked Luke Rockhold
will the wheel kick it's it's happened
before
right but it's just not a high
percentage kick and it's usually a kick
that's you know it comes out of nowhere
you don't expect it right but that's but
but can you tell when someone has it and
doesn't is because it's an intangible so
if you said if at the start of the you
know barbozza and Etem fight you said
you know knockout by timing your
creativity you'd say like what would you
mean you know but if you could foresee
that the same way that you could
quantify that sort of mental fortitude
I think you start opening the door in
sports performance into something that's
just this whole other realm that you
don't talk about weight as a metric
strength
car dealer spirit changers you can stop
talking is that hard to see again with
tight well yeah with creativity
especially regards to striking technique
yeah that's a that's a crazy intangible
because you're essentially deciding when
to move and what to do right like you
can throw a jab you throw a front kick
you can throw a roundhouse kick you
could throw a wheel kick and you threw a
turning side kick you could throw an axe
kick if you're crazy you know there's a
lot of different things you can do so
what do you decide to do and why decide
to do it is it because you have a style
like some people style is like Conor
likes to hop in and out he throws like a
little front leg side kick he throws
like that for a movement he likes to
keep his arms wide and understand the
side waist dance some guys like to hold
up like this in a Muay Thai shell and
they move forward lifting that front leg
up and they they move forward and then
challenge with leg kicks and striking
technique some guys just like to wrestle
they'll paw at you and they look to
shoot like Ben Askren you know he's not
gonna stand up a strike with anybody
he's looking to take you to the ground
beat the fuck out of you yeah that's
what he does so it's all and what do you
decide to do and why do you side to do
it and when do you decide to do it yeah
when do you engage you know you're
throwing some feints you know you don't
want to be the guy who makes it obvious
that you're moving forward because then
like Connor clipped although you get
rocked mm-hmm you know so it's crazy
crazy sport is but you if you enter into
that realm and even start applying more
swear so again we talked about that sort
of strength deficit as well that if you
get someone you know trying to like like
John Jones who you know move up to heavy
weight is it gonna be will it benefit
him when he was strength training for
instance you know a common but his
deadlift but was pretty impressive
pretty impressive I think was six
hundred pounds big deadlift yes so when
you look at that strength deficit John
Jones very lean was using neuromuscular
he was recruiting voluntarily all of
those muscle fibers it was unbelievable
but if he moves out a bit would it be
would any more muscle mass be functional
and I think when you start the question
looking at when should he do that that's
another good question because you're
beating your body up to do that
yeah and is that conducive with high
aerobic capacity training like multiple
rounds of sparring and bag work and pad
were
and you're all the lower back muscles
that are getting stressed and does that
lead to potential injuries is the
potentially damaging his discs yeah his
knees like there's a lot of a lot of
things to be considered and when should
you do that a lot of people do you think
you should do that when you're nowhere
near a camp yeah yeah like you win a
fight and then you decide to build up in
between camps yeah and I think that's
awful even dare until you-know-who huge
huge you know welterweight huge yes yeah
he's a nest weight in his title shot
against Tyron Woodley and then he got
rocked right put away so if you're
moving up how do you do it do you and do
it intelligently do yes but but then
there are guys were just you know like
they say training is the real eyes of
realization of one's genetic potential
and when you get someone like you know
Rumble Johnson it's just you know no you
never met me he fought well no he made
weight I'm sorry he made weight against
Tyron Woodley didn't he yes he made
videos with he didn't make great against
Donald Cerrone right that's what it was
he came in very heavy against Al Zahrani
he's a big motherfuckers what he is you
know he's so big for welterweight I
think he'll be way better off at 185
pounds but I think many of them will I
think there's a point of diminishing
returns where they're significantly
defeating themselves right to make that
weight and then when they don't have to
do that they have more energy
yeah seen that time and time again
exactly but when you did Rumble Johnson
he fought a welterweight right he's so
big base got like go on and then all of
a sudden move move and then you know was
it Noguera I mean yeah I could fight
heavyweight he did fight heavyweight
successfully in in the PFL he not he
broke Andrei Arlovski 's jaw he fucked
Andrei Arlovski up as a heavyweight and
that's what always fascinates me is that
and I suppose it's that god-given kind
of power yeah for all of the the
training it seems you know with someone
like Johnson and a he because he said mr
anything he said he's gonna come back
for heavyweight if DC and Jones go up
he's thought about it um you know I
think he's he's in the weed game right
now is making some money selling weed
which is legal now no he's doing that
what Wow okay I'm gonna sighs him now
but he fought Hardy
right yes we fought Hardy and he took
him down which was interesting he didn't
want to stand with Dan yeah back in the
day was a different thing I mean they
kind of made an agreement to stand with
each other and then he's like bitch
bitch and he took him down and he won by
decision but that was a different Rumble
Johnson I think the rumble Johnson at
170 he had no fucking energy right he
was on death's door he was just always
exhausted he would lose fights he just
he got choked out by Josh Koscheck he
was just too tired yeah and I think
weight cutting as well obviously you
know there's been some changes now but
even now and I love max Holloway but it
was I think it was UFC embedded where
they flew his favorite cupcakes over
from Hawaii and he's like yeah I love
cupcakes I've made weight and then he's
just you know nailing cupcake outsmart
no and I think there's just that element
now that that I think as much as MMA has
evolved and again this is someone who
doesn't understand the technical aspects
but as someone who loves kind of sports
history you know and I've watched it and
I'm just like that is amazing but it
still got so far to go again we were
talking earlier about you know football
or you know soccer is known here back in
England and the warming up of the the
brandy you know in the in the changing
rooms I think even now it's crazy when
you have someone so gifted like that but
they are you know rehydrating and re
carb-loading on cupcakes it's it's like
yeah there are better this way better
way way your body is basically in
fight-or-flight
you know you've subjected it to a form
of micro trauma you know body's kind of
sitting there going on and then you're
going to get he go his laser cupcakes
you made weight yeah yeah so there I
find that really interesting that you
see some of the guys who you know was it
Gleason to Bao wasn't it who just like
it was so big it was he got in me it was
like he said he'd weigh in and then it
would be like he sent his older brother
in like they were unrecognizable yeah
and and and I think it's really
interesting that that physiological
puppetry if you know how to do
intelligently it can be so powerful but
you do it for the wrong reasons but even
if you know how to do it intelligently
there's still a demand that it places on
your organs that's it's there's
consequences you're right and and over
time your body resists it and this was
the thought behind max Holloway's last
weight cutting fail is that when he was
trying to cut down on short notice to
fight khabib nurmagomedov he was cutting
down only to 155 and he couldn't make it
right and they they pulled him out of
that and then he started suffering some
significant problems when he was getting
ready for brian ortega right and they
think that when he was ready for getting
ready for take what was going on was his
body was reacting to the fact that he
was trying to cut weight again and it
was like fuck you we just got through
this man right you know and he was like
really messed up because of it and he
had to go through a battery of tests
before they approved him to fight again
so his body had a like fully fully
recover months off and then get back to
training and now he's okay but but I
think it's changing I mean now I mean
Frankie Edgar was almost the first heave
to fight like five pounds that he
wouldn't even cut weight he wouldn't cut
anyway yeah that was his wake well this
is what they say
Frankie although was the 155-pound
champion and now competes at 145 pounds
really he should be fighting at 135 and
135 is where he could be at his best
that's what everybody says Wow
especially people that know like weight
cutting and they look at what he walks
around and like look twenty pounds from
55 ain't shit yeah you know those guys
do it all the time especially you get a
guy like a George Lockhart who really
knows how to do it and put that weight
back on you you know and how to do it
correctly scientifically it's but we're
seeing that now across all sports I
think this evolution that we were
understanding asking Carlin Isles is one
of my favorites say he was a good
American sprinter he was di believe your
name top fifty you know he was he was
amazing
but wasn't quite making it you know he's
not a you same boy he's not a Justin
Gatlin
so they just said hey Carlin his a his a
rugby ball and again oh it'll be on
YouTube some ways like
why do regardez are the fastest we can
play they just handed him you know boy
now there's one of my favorite clips cuz
he it was one of his first games or
something and and I think it was an
Australian commentator and he just ran
like rings around everybody like scored
a try and then the commentator was like
guys I cannot believe this can you
believe here we go look here we go
here's the ball oh my God look at him go
good boy that is insane oh my god
they're all quitting the guy chasing
gave that guy there's more this is a
love corners and he ran past him like
the guy was ahead of it there's no I'm
not even gonna sites at you because I
don't it's like he doesn't even respect
their speed look how much faster is in
those guys that's hilarious
was that's all in many ways right isn't
it like that other guy who broke the
world record by rowing you're doing
something else and gotten so much power
and energy in his body that he could
translate that to to rowing and we're
seeing that now but and that was what's
amazing there with recolonize like I
said he scored a he's got to try and
then the commentator there was two
commentators talking they said I can't
believe he's only been playing you know
a number of months and there they were
like yeah that's amazing and then the
other commentator said no no I can
believe it he's just tried to give the
referee the ball and he didn't know what
to do he'd scored a try and he was like
just listen man just run but what do I
do when I get to the edges get again and
then we'll talk I'll tell you what to do
it'll take about three minutes baby I
think you spoke about it's not too long
about I think you might have mentioned
LeBron James saying if someone like that
I was taught MMA oh my god everybody'd
be dead what would happen yeah and I
think we're seeing that now that you
know sports now there's more money you
know in MMA and it's evolved to what it
is now it's amazing that if you get you
know some unbelievable phenom as a kid
you go you're going to MMA yeah but it's
not as popular as basketball and it
doesn't pay as much money as LeBron
James
makes cuz you LeBron James what does he
make 100 million dollars a year
something crazy just from basketball
it's like 35 or so 35 million just from
basketball like and then sponsorships
like unless you're Conor McGregor or
Floyd Mayweather you're not gonna make
that much money from fighting they can
make that much money from fighting but
they're so rare right and then Conor
could only make that much money from
fighting if he box Floyd like even
though the fight with khabib was the
number one MMA pay-per-view of all time
the number two pay-per-view in the
history of pay-per-views just behind
Floyd Mayweather vs. Manny Pacquiao
right it got more pay-per-view buys than
Floyd Mayweather vs Conor McGregor I
believe I believe that's true
Wow look that up I think it was 2.2
million for Floyd Mayweather vs Conor
McGregor and then 2.4 million for Floyd
Mayweather versus khabib nurmagomedov I
think it was number two of all time Wow
just behind the Floyd Mayweather Manny
Pacquiao fight which is just incredible
so they must have made a shit ton of
money from that but how many times can
Conor do that yeah don't you know I mean
look the Irish support him but people
thought he had a chance of winning that
fight and then once he gets smashed like
that I don't think they're gonna think
he has a chance of winning again unless
he does something significant right
right yeah he has to beat somebody like
he has to fight like Kevin Lee and fuck
him up
mmm you know if you fought Kevin Lee or
Tony Ferguson and fucked him up mmm and
then you know said look I had two years
off I wasn't ready for could be but I'm
ready now
mmm fuck the Mayweather's and he said
something like that people he's got to
have some success though Floyd Connor
was six point seven million Floyd Manny
was four point four million and then it
would have been right around the next
one which has been Oscar and Floyd which
is two point four so yeah that's like
two point five two point four is I've
been right around numbers so number
three then number three overall number
one MMA number one MMA but number three
overall it could be tied so what were
the what are the boxing numbers again
what was it six point seven for the
Floyd Connor 4.4 for Floyd Manny that is
so crazy six point seven for Floyd
Connor wired my numbers off
but with that amount of money that that
what it's so interesting that you know
with that thrown around this kind of
extrinsic motivation money meaning name
this is intrinsic motivation and and in
a strange way with the swim you know uh
when we got around John O'Groats at the
top it was everyone was like yeah yeah
yeah you just set the Lands End to John
O'Groats record well done and those
cameras and it was amazing and then I
was just swimming across the Moray Firth
getting hit by jellyfish in you know six
degree waters it was horrible and and I
think I think right now as well and
khabib fascinates me that you know and I
don't know the logistics again you know
I've been out at sea so I'm still trying
to catch up but he was offered so much
money for the rematch hmm but I believe
he turned it down could be no right
there was talk of a rematch but the UFC
did not offer him a right financial sum
that was rumors they hadn't even talked
they were trying to figure out what to
do next and in fact the UFC said that
most likely next was Tony Ferguson ok ok
so that's that's the current the last
time they talked about someone fighting
for the title again but it was a while
ago now again might been UFC embedded
when I and I think it was when could be
years ago now met George st. Pierre and
and could be you know said lovely to
meet you again just who and then could
be was smiling and he said ah you know
my dad has always said that he'd love to
see me fight you know George st. Pierre
and and for me that was really
interesting because could be motivation
seems to be intrinsic and and yeah his
skills against the best people in what
you could offer him all the money in the
world but he just wants to do something
you know he talks about his dad his
family in it and it's it's a different
beast and that's what I find really
interesting there but but but I'm not
saying different as in better worse good
or bad because ultimately Mayweather's
never lost but when you see someone like
Mayweather you think is he just an
extrinsic Lee motivated when he's saying
and if it doesn't make money it doesn't
make sense you kind of look at him going
war you're extrinsically motivated
arguably and I don't know I've never met
the guy and stuff but you you're
extrinsic motivator but you've never
lost so which one's more powerful I
don't think he's completely
extrinsically motivated I think that's a
lot of it as an act
do you think yeah he's too good looks
too good there's I mean there there has
to be some some deep emotional
connection to his work there's got to be
some connection to his legacy what he's
been able to do the way he's been able
to retire undefeated as a professional
boxer which is almost unheard of right
because that this I want to believe that
and I hope you ask you because because
you almost taught like intrinsic
motivation do it for the love you know
and sort of you know the sweet science I
want to believe that Mayweather is there
any studying you know but maybe he
doesn't want you to see that side ho no
he's too good he's too good he's gotta
have a love of boxing there's no way
he's too good the way he's artistically
taking guys apart like you go to the
Canelo Alvarez fight and the way he was
like it was slipping away from Canelo's
big shots and popping him with the jabs
like pitch yeah not today not today
it was intelligent in his approach to
that fight too cuz he made Canelo drain
himself to get down 250 pounds right
that was a different thing
he forced Canelo to cut a lot of weight
to get down to his weight class but it
being Floyd really realistically is 147
pounds only fighting in these higher
weight classes cuz the money's there
right it's a fucking wizard man he's a
wizard but that's what I mean about like
that that will starts mm-hmm he's
playing with everybody's head yeah you
talk about like psychological warfare
you know the art of war and everything
like that and he's doing it on a mass
scale like we've probably never
experienced before well was fascinating
was Conor was doing it to him was
screaming in his face with a hard-on by
the way when at the weigh-in so I don't
know how he generated a hard-ass but you
know he must have played with his dick
before he got out there it took some
viagra camping I really think that might
have been part of the psychological
motivation just just scream in his face
I'm gonna fucking kill you you little
puke you piece of shit and flow is just
like this just dead face staring at him
right didn't scream back dead face state
coms like tomorrow I'm gonna fuck you up
and there ain't no goddamn thing in the
world is gonna change there right right
well Connor was like the first guy that
Floyd ever fought that could fuck him up
in a real fight though right was the
there was
different element of danger there
because there was agreed-upon rule set
where Connor wasn't gonna kick wasn't
gonna take him down was gonna strangle
him mm-hmm so because of that Floyd knew
he could win mmm but he also knew
without a doubt if they were just going
to fight fight hmm if there was no
gloves if they just put the gloves aside
and just had a street fight
Connor would fucking kill him I mean
it's not a question on my mind is not
that not there's not a doubt to be had
yeah
Connor would kick him from a distance he
would probe in with front kicks kick his
legs Floyd would start to limp Connor
would step in tie him up
elbow him take him down smash his face
into a bloody pulp do whatever he wanted
to him strangle him rip his knees apart
with leg locks he did whatever he wanted
to him if they were gonna just fight
fight em hmm you know and he said that
to him he's like if this was a fight I'd
fucking kill you he just looked right
out of and he's saying that to him Floyd
how to just eat it but it didn't matter
cuz it wasn't a fight it was a boxing
match and he didn't have a chance but do
you think that worked with Aldo for
instance because I can again this is me
kind of just talking more on the the
mental warfare side and not really
understanding the technical aspect but
that world tour was fascinating to watch
and the whole way round and again this
is me not understanding all that much
about MMA but being fascinated with a
mental aspect there and again George st.
Pierre when he fought Nick Diaz and and
they were saying you know we're gonna
he's gonna talk to you he's gonna talk
to he's gonna walk you down right don't
be affected enjoys happy I was across ya
won't be and then he was talking so much
that George have you even said it just
invoked again actually going back to
what we were talking about you know our
bodies as much as we like to think about
it's black and white the complex
biochemical organisms so when and I'm
not saying that you know the Diaz
brothers necessarily think like that but
they were I'm gonna talk to you and I'm
gonna mess with your bio mechanic do you
know you're the chemical reactions
within your body neurotransmitters
making you for the oceans mind fuck you
yes they're doing it for sure they're
doing they're not stupid when Nick's
doing that to you is like what bitch
what's gonna do bitch he's fucking with
your head man
I remember the first time he did that to
Robbie Lawler Robbie was like 20 21
years old and Nik was young too and
they're both standing to the they moved
into the cage and they closed it and
Nikki has just started saying Stockton
motherfucker stopping bravi Lara was
like what he's like standing in front of
him that's against Carlos Condit he
drops his the best one was against
Anderson Silva he fell to the ground and
pretended he was sleeping he put his
hands together like he was taking a nap
he laid down and I couldn't stop
laughing I was like this motherfucker is
so crazy
he's just like right there drop down and
start of relaxing go to the back go back
that one's better
yeah so when you see him lay down and
leaned on his head like I'm just gonna
take a nap here like what Anderson Silva
did Forrest Griffin and his career but
he's doing this to a guy who's the 187
85-pound rather best ever right right
and he's not even a hundred and eighty
five pounder he's really a 155 pounder I
mean Nick Diaz when he was a champion in
Strikeforce or LEED XC lead XC right he
was 155-pound champion what's what's
amazing here is everything that we
talked about in terms of intangibles
mind-body connection Nick is imposing
his mind-body connection on Anderson in
that he's gonna I'm gonna back yet with
yours fucking with his head for sure
what will see the champ why am I not
remembering it was it a LEED XC or
Strikeforce that Nick Diaz was the
champion of it might have been
Strikeforce why can't I remember yeah
but but why did I think elite XC know he
Ali the Fatih lead XC did he oh okay
now I remember because that was because
mayhem Miller and Jake Shields had a
brawl in a LEED XC and Nick Diaz was a
part of the brawl they all piled on each
other and those chaos but strike that
was a him Paul Daley the knockout I mean
no but also just kind of yeah like fell
and and it so it's it's so strange that
this intangible this thing that I'm now
fascinated with like energy news leader
XE so he did fight him in elite XE
that's right so he finally taxi and then
became Strikeforce champion that's why
I'm confused Wow yeah that he whatever
Mayweather did differently to Aldo might
have been granted different sports
granted but there was something that
McGregor was like it's not working the
way that when he pinched you know Aldo
his neck and Aldo turn around and you
know again without understanding the
technical element that was for me it was
so fascinating watching the two and like
you said Mayweather stood there
completely stoic you know Aldo was not
comfortable with it in he lost his
composure and he attacked he attacked
Conor in a way that exposed him he got
exposed to a counter shot he was he
wasn't patient he was very emotional and
he just wanted to fuck that dude up and
when he's got clipped right right now
and look Connor played him perfectly
played him like a fiddle yeah yeah hey
man I gotta wrap this up it's already
five o'clock we just went through three
hours they're not sorry it was awesome I
really appreciate it and what you did is
beyond impressive man I mean it's
fascinating stuff and I feel like we
could do a hundred of these kind of
conversations though often you in Los
Angeles this is my first time we'll come
back next time we're gonna swim to the
moon let me know we'll get Burton again
for your record he's an amazing physical
specimen of soccer right or like okay
we'll do something let's definitely do
another podcast this has been amazing
way thank you really appreciate thank
you alright
Oh tell people with your social media
how did I get to you know bless yeah um
so yeah Instagram just rough sadly spell
please yeah I know it gets difficult ro
SS e BG l ey same on Twitter and same on
Facebook yes snow for thank you thank
you brother thank you alright folks
that's it for today bye
[Music]
[Applause]